<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>Genesis 33</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/docclass1.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
<p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">Genesis</a>  <a href="biblechapternav1.xhtml">33</a> : <a href="bibleversenav1_33.xhtml">1 - 20</a></p>
<p id="p279" class="p279 sb"><span id="pos132049"></span><span id="chapter33"></span><span id="chapter33_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>33 </strong></span>Now Jacob raised his eyes and saw E′sau coming, and 400 men were with him. So he divided the children among Le′ah, Rachel, and the two female servants. <span id="chapter33_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2 </sup></strong>He put the female servants and their children in front, Le′ah and her children after them, and Rachel and Joseph behind them. <span id="chapter33_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3 </sup></strong>Then he himself went ahead of them and bowed down to the earth seven times as he came near to his brother.</p>
<p id="p280" class="p280 sb"><span id="chapter33_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4 </sup></strong>But E′sau ran to meet him, and he embraced him and kissed him, and they burst into tears. <span id="chapter33_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5 </sup></strong>When he raised his eyes and saw the women and the children, he said: “Who are these with you?” to which he said: “The children with whom God has favored your servant.” <span id="chapter33_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6 </sup></strong>At that the female servants came forward with their children and bowed down, <span id="chapter33_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7 </sup></strong>and Le′ah too came forward with her children, and they bowed down. Then Joseph came forward with Rachel, and they bowed down.</p>
<p id="p281" class="p281 sb"><span id="chapter33_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8 </sup></strong>E′sau said: “What is the purpose of all this camp of travelers that I have met?” He replied: “In order to find favor in the eyes of my lord.” <span id="chapter33_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9 </sup></strong>Then E′sau said: “I have a great many possessions, my brother. Keep what is yours.” <span id="chapter33_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10 </sup></strong>However, Jacob said: “No, please. If I have found favor in your eyes, you must take my gift from my hand, because I brought it so that I could see your face. And I have seen your face as though seeing God’s face, in that you received me with pleasure. <span id="chapter33_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11 </sup></strong>Take, please, the gift conveying my blessing that was brought to you, for God has favored me and I have everything I need.” And he continued to urge him, so that he took it.</p>
<p id="p282" class="p282 sb"><span id="chapter33_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12 </sup></strong>Later E′sau said: “Let us move out and go, and let me go in advance of you.” <span id="chapter33_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13 </sup></strong>But he said to him: “My lord is aware that the children are delicate and that in my care are sheep and cattle nursing their young. If they are driven too quickly for one day, then the whole flock will die. <span id="chapter33_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14 </sup></strong>Let my lord, please, go on ahead of his servant, but I will continue the journey more slowly at the pace of my livestock and of the children until I come to my lord at Se′ir.” <span id="chapter33_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15 </sup></strong>Then E′sau said: “Please, let me leave some of my people with you.” To this he said: “Why do this? Just let me find favor in the eyes of my lord.” <span id="chapter33_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16 </sup></strong>So that day E′sau went on his way back to Se′ir.</p>
<p id="p283" class="p283 sb"><span id="pos134300"></span><span id="chapter33_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17 </sup></strong>And Jacob journeyed to Suc′coth, and he built a house for himself and he made shelters for his herd. That was why he named the place Suc′coth.<span id="footnotesource254"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote254">*</a></p>
<p id="p284" class="p284 sb"><span id="chapter33_verse18"></span><strong><sup>18 </sup></strong>After journeying from Pad′dan-a′ram, Jacob arrived safely at the city of She′chem in the land of Ca′naan, and he set up his camp near the city. <span id="chapter33_verse19"></span><strong><sup>19 </sup></strong>Then he acquired a portion of the field where he pitched his tent from the sons of Ha′mor, the father of She′chem, for 100 <span id="page87"></span>pieces of money. <span id="chapter33_verse20"></span><strong><sup>20 </sup></strong>There he set up an altar and called it God, the God of Israel.</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote254"><p><a href="026_GE-1-split33.xhtml#footnotesource254">^ <span class="footnoteref">Gen. 33:17</span></a> Meaning “Booths; Shelters.”</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
