<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>Genesis 36</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/docclass1.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
<p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">Genesis</a>  <a href="biblechapternav1.xhtml">36</a> : <a href="bibleversenav1_36.xhtml">1 - 43</a></p>
<p id="p302" class="p302 sb"><span id="pos142806"></span><span id="chapter36"></span><span id="chapter36_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>36 </strong></span>This is the history of E′sau, that is, E′dom.</p>
<p id="p303" class="p303 sb"><span id="chapter36_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2 </sup></strong>E′sau took his wives from the daughters of Ca′naan: A′dah the daughter of E′lon the Hit′tite; and O·hol·i·ba′mah the daughter of A′nah, the granddaughter of Zib′e·on the Hi′vite; <span id="chapter36_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3 </sup></strong>and Bas′e·math, Ish′ma·el’s daughter, the sister of Ne·ba′ioth.</p>
<p id="p304" class="p304 sb"><span id="chapter36_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4 </sup></strong>And A′dah bore El′i·phaz to E′sau, and Bas′e·math bore Reu′el, <span id="chapter36_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5 </sup></strong>and O·hol·i·ba′mah bore Je′ush, Ja′lam, and Kor′ah.</p>
<p id="p305" class="p305 sb">These are the sons of E′sau, who were born to him in the land of Ca′naan. <span id="chapter36_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6 </sup></strong>After that E′sau took his wives, his sons, his daughters, all the members<span id="footnotesource273"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote273">*</a> of his household, his herd and all his other beasts, and all the wealth he had accumulated in the land of Ca′naan and he went to another land some distance away from Jacob his brother. <span id="chapter36_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7 </sup></strong>For their goods had become too many for them to dwell together, and the land where they were residing<span id="footnotesource274"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote274">*</a> was not able to sustain them because of their herds. <span id="chapter36_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8 </sup></strong>So E′sau took up <span id="page90"></span>dwelling in the mountainous region of Se′ir. E′sau is E′dom.</p>
<p id="p306" class="p306 sb"><span id="chapter36_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9 </sup></strong>And this is the history of E′sau the father of E′dom in the mountainous region of Se′ir.</p>
<p id="p307" class="p307 sb"><span id="chapter36_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10 </sup></strong>These are the names of the sons of E′sau: El′i·phaz the son of A′dah, E′sau’s wife; Reu′el the son of Bas′e·math, E′sau’s wife.</p>
<p id="p308" class="p308 sb"><span id="chapter36_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11 </sup></strong>The sons of El′i·phaz were Te′man, O′mar, Ze′pho, Ga′tam, and Ke′naz. <span id="chapter36_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12 </sup></strong>Tim′na became the concubine of El′i·phaz, E′sau’s son. In time she bore to El′i·phaz, Am′a·lek. These are the sons of A′dah, E′sau’s wife.</p>
<p id="p309" class="p309 sb"><span id="chapter36_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13 </sup></strong>These are the sons of Reu′el: Na′hath, Ze′rah, Sham′mah, and Miz′zah. These were the sons of Bas′e·math, E′sau’s wife.</p>
<p id="p310" class="p310 sb"><span id="chapter36_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14 </sup></strong>These were the sons of O·hol·i·ba′mah the daughter of A′nah, the granddaughter of Zib′e·on, E′sau’s wife, whom she bore to E′sau: Je′ush, Ja′lam, and Kor′ah.</p>
<p id="p311" class="p311 sb"><span id="chapter36_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15 </sup></strong>These are the sheikhs<span id="footnotesource275"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote275">*</a> of the sons of E′sau: The sons of El′i·phaz, E′sau’s firstborn: Sheikh Te′man, Sheikh O′mar, Sheikh Ze′pho, Sheikh Ke′naz, <span id="chapter36_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16 </sup></strong>Sheikh Kor′ah, Sheikh Ga′tam, and Sheikh Am′a·lek. These are the sheikhs of El′i·phaz in the land of E′dom. These are the sons by A′dah.</p>
<p id="p312" class="p312 sb"><span id="chapter36_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17 </sup></strong>These are the sons of Reu′el, E′sau’s son: Sheikh Na′hath, Sheikh Ze′rah, Sheikh Sham′mah, and Sheikh Miz′zah. These are the sheikhs of Reu′el in the land of E′dom. These are the sons by Bas′e·math, E′sau’s wife.</p>
<p id="p313" class="p313 sb"><span id="chapter36_verse18"></span><strong><sup>18 </sup></strong>Finally these are the sons of O·hol·i·ba′mah, E′sau’s wife: Sheikh Je′ush, Sheikh Ja′lam, and Sheikh Kor′ah. These are the sheikhs of O·hol·i·ba′mah the daughter of A′nah, E′sau’s wife.</p>
<p id="p314" class="p314 sb"><span id="chapter36_verse19"></span><strong><sup>19 </sup></strong>These are the sons of E′sau, and these are their sheikhs. He is E′dom.</p>
<p id="p315" class="p315 sb"><span id="chapter36_verse20"></span><strong><sup>20 </sup></strong>These are the sons of Se′ir the Hor′ite, the inhabitants of the land: Lo′tan, Sho′bal, Zib′e·on, A′nah, <span id="chapter36_verse21"></span><strong><sup>21 </sup></strong>Di′shon, E′zer, and Di′shan. These are the sheikhs of the Hor′ites, the sons of Se′ir, in the land of E′dom.</p>
<p id="p316" class="p316 sb"><span id="chapter36_verse22"></span><strong><sup>22 </sup></strong>The sons of Lo′tan were Ho′ri and He′mam, and Lo′tan’s sister was Tim′na.</p>
<p id="p317" class="p317 sb"><span id="chapter36_verse23"></span><strong><sup>23 </sup></strong>These are the sons of Sho′bal: Al′van, Man′a·hath, E′bal, She′pho, and O′nam.</p>
<p id="p318" class="p318 sb"><span id="chapter36_verse24"></span><strong><sup>24 </sup></strong>These are the sons of Zib′e·on: A′iah and A′nah. This is the A′nah who found the hot springs in the wilderness while he was tending the donkeys for Zib′e·on his father.</p>
<p id="p319" class="p319 sb"><span id="chapter36_verse25"></span><strong><sup>25 </sup></strong>These are the children of A′nah: Di′shon and O·hol·i·ba′mah the daughter of A′nah.</p>
<p id="p320" class="p320 sb"><span id="chapter36_verse26"></span><strong><sup>26 </sup></strong>These are the sons of Di′shon: Hem′dan, Esh′ban, Ith′ran, and Che′ran.</p>
<p id="p321" class="p321 sb"><span id="chapter36_verse27"></span><strong><sup>27 </sup></strong>These are the sons of E′zer: Bil′han, Za′a·van, and A′kan.</p>
<p id="p322" class="p322 sb"><span id="chapter36_verse28"></span><strong><sup>28 </sup></strong>These are the sons of Di′shan: Uz and A′ran.</p>
<p id="p323" class="p323 sb"><span id="chapter36_verse29"></span><strong><sup>29 </sup></strong>These are the sheikhs of the Hor′ites: Sheikh Lo′tan, Sheikh Sho′bal, Sheikh Zib′e·on, Sheikh A′nah, <span id="chapter36_verse30"></span><strong><sup>30 </sup></strong>Sheikh Di′shon, Sheikh E′zer, and Sheikh Di′shan. These are the sheikhs of the Hor′ites according to their sheikhs in the land of Se′ir.</p>
<p id="p324" class="p324 sb"><span id="pos146480"></span><span id="chapter36_verse31"></span><strong><sup>31 </sup></strong>Now these are the kings who reigned in the land of E′dom before any king reigned over the Israelites.<span id="footnotesource276"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote276">*</a> <span id="chapter36_verse32"></span><strong><sup>32 </sup></strong>Be′la son of Be′or reigned in E′dom, and the name of his city was Din′ha·bah. <span id="chapter36_verse33"></span><strong><sup>33 </sup></strong>When Be′la died, Jo′bab son of Ze′rah from Boz′rah began to reign <span id="page91"></span>in his place. <span id="chapter36_verse34"></span><strong><sup>34 </sup></strong>When Jo′bab died, Hu′sham from the land of the Te′man·ites began to reign in his place. <span id="chapter36_verse35"></span><strong><sup>35 </sup></strong>When Hu′sham died, Ha′dad son of Be′dad, who defeated the Mid′i·an·ites in the territory<span id="footnotesource277"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote277">*</a> of Mo′ab, began to reign in his place, and the name of his city was A′vith. <span id="chapter36_verse36"></span><strong><sup>36 </sup></strong>When Ha′dad died, Sam′lah from Mas·re′kah began to reign in his place. <span id="chapter36_verse37"></span><strong><sup>37 </sup></strong>When Sam′lah died, Sha′ul from Re·ho′both by the River began to reign in his place. <span id="chapter36_verse38"></span><strong><sup>38 </sup></strong>When Sha′ul died, Ba′al-ha′nan the son of Ach′bor began to reign in his place. <span id="chapter36_verse39"></span><strong><sup>39 </sup></strong>When Ba′al-ha′nan the son of Ach′bor died, Ha′dar began to reign in his place. The name of his city was Pa′u, and the name of his wife was Me·het′a·bel the daughter of Ma′tred the daughter of Me′za·hab.</p>
<p id="p325" class="p325 sb"><span id="chapter36_verse40"></span><strong><sup>40 </sup></strong>So these are the names of the sheikhs of E′sau according to their families, according to their places, by their names: Sheikh Tim′na, Sheikh Al′vah, Sheikh Je′theth, <span id="chapter36_verse41"></span><strong><sup>41 </sup></strong>Sheikh O·hol·i·ba′mah, Sheikh E′lah, Sheikh Pi′non, <span id="chapter36_verse42"></span><strong><sup>42 </sup></strong>Sheikh Ke′naz, Sheikh Te′man, Sheikh Mib′zar, <span id="chapter36_verse43"></span><strong><sup>43 </sup></strong>Sheikh Mag′di·el, and Sheikh I′ram. These are the sheikhs of E′dom according to their settlements in the land of their possession. This is E′sau the father of E′dom.</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote273"><p><a href="026_GE-1-split36.xhtml#footnotesource273">^ <span class="footnoteref">Gen. 36:6</span></a> Or “souls.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote274"><p><a href="026_GE-1-split36.xhtml#footnotesource274">^ <span class="footnoteref">Gen. 36:7</span></a> Or “living as foreigners.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote275"><p><a href="026_GE-1-split36.xhtml#footnotesource275">^ <span class="footnoteref">Gen. 36:15</span></a> A sheikh was a tribal chief.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote276"><p><a href="026_GE-1-split36.xhtml#footnotesource276">^ <span class="footnoteref">Gen. 36:31</span></a> Lit., “the sons of Israel.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote277"><p><a href="026_GE-1-split36.xhtml#footnotesource277">^ <span class="footnoteref">Gen. 36:35</span></a> Lit., “field.”</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
