<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>Genesis 25</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/docclass1.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
<p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">Genesis</a>  <a href="biblechapternav1.xhtml">25</a> : <a href="bibleversenav1_25.xhtml">1 - 34</a></p>
<p id="p201" class="p201 sb"><span id="pos89423"></span><span id="chapter25"></span><span id="chapter25_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>25 </strong></span>Now Abraham again took a wife, and her name was Ke·tu′rah. <span id="chapter25_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2 </sup></strong>In time she bore him Zim′ran, Jok′shan, Me′dan, Mid′i·an, Ish′bak, and Shu′ah.</p>
<p id="p202" class="p202 sb"><span id="chapter25_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3 </sup></strong>Jok′shan became father to She′ba and De′dan.</p>
<p id="p203" class="p203 sb">The sons of De′dan were As·shu′rim, Le·tu′shim, and Le·um′mim.</p>
<p id="p204" class="p204 sb"><span id="chapter25_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4 </sup></strong>The sons of Mid′i·an were E′phah, E′pher, Ha′noch, A·bi′da, and El·da′ah.</p>
<p id="p205" class="p205 sb">All of these were the sons of Ke·tu′rah.</p>
<p id="p206" class="p206 sb"><span id="chapter25_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5 </sup></strong>Later on Abraham gave everything he had to Isaac, <span id="chapter25_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6 </sup></strong>but Abraham gave gifts to his sons by his concubines. Then while he was still alive, he sent them eastward, away from Isaac his son, to the land of the East. <span id="pos90021"></span><span id="chapter25_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7 </sup></strong>The years of Abraham’s life were 175 years. <span id="chapter25_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8 </sup></strong>Then Abraham breathed his last and died at a good old age, old and satisfied, and was gathered to his people.<span id="footnotesource177"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote177">*</a> <span id="chapter25_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9 </sup></strong>His sons Isaac and Ish′ma·el buried him in the cave of Mach·pe′lah in the field of E′phron the son of Zo′har the Hit′tite that is in front of Mam′re, <span id="chapter25_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10 </sup></strong>the field that Abraham had purchased from the sons of Heth. There Abraham was buried, with his wife Sarah. <span id="chapter25_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11 </sup></strong>After Abraham’s death, God continued to bless his son Isaac, and Isaac was dwelling near Be′er-la′hai-roi.</p>
<p id="p207" class="p207 sb"><span id="pos90567"></span><span id="chapter25_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12 </sup></strong>This is the history of Ish′ma·el the son of Abraham whom Ha′gar the Egyptian, the servant of Sarah, bore to Abraham.</p>
<p id="p208" class="p208 sb"><span id="chapter25_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13 </sup></strong>Now these are the names of the sons of Ish′ma·el, by their names according to their family origins: Ish′ma·el’s firstborn Ne·ba′ioth, then Ke′dar, Ad′be·el, Mib′sam, <span id="chapter25_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14 </sup></strong>Mish′ma, Du′mah, Mas′sa, <span id="chapter25_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15 </sup></strong>Ha′dad, Te′ma, Je′tur, Na′phish, and Ked′e·mah. <span id="chapter25_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16 </sup></strong>These are the sons of Ish′ma·el, and these are their names by their settlements and by their encampments,<span id="footnotesource178"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote178">*</a> 12 chieftains according to their clans. <span id="chapter25_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17 </sup></strong>And Ish′ma·el lived for 137 years. <span id="page73"></span>Then he breathed his last and died and was gathered to his people.<span id="footnotesource179"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote179">*</a> <span id="chapter25_verse18"></span><strong><sup>18 </sup></strong>And they took up dwelling from Hav′i·lah near Shur, which is close to Egypt, as far as As·syr′i·a. He settled near all his brothers.<span id="footnotesource180"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote180">*</a></p>
<p id="p209" class="p209 sb"><span id="pos91367"></span><span id="chapter25_verse19"></span><strong><sup>19 </sup></strong>And this is the history of Isaac the son of Abraham.</p>
<p id="p210" class="p210 sb">Abraham became father to Isaac. <span id="chapter25_verse20"></span><strong><sup>20 </sup></strong>Isaac was 40 years old when he married Re·bek′ah, the daughter of Be·thu′el the A·ra·mae′an of Pad′dan-a′ram, the sister of La′ban the A·ra·mae′an. <span id="chapter25_verse21"></span><strong><sup>21 </sup></strong>And Isaac kept pleading with Jehovah regarding his wife, because she was barren; so Jehovah responded to his plea, and his wife Re·bek′ah became pregnant. <span id="chapter25_verse22"></span><strong><sup>22 </sup></strong>And the sons within her began to struggle with each other, so that she said: “If this is the way it is, why should I go on living?” So she inquired of Jehovah. <span id="chapter25_verse23"></span><strong><sup>23 </sup></strong>And Jehovah said to her: “Two nations are in your womb, and two peoples will be separated from within you; and the one nation will be stronger than the other nation, and the older will serve the younger.”</p>
<p id="p211" class="p211 sb"><span id="chapter25_verse24"></span><strong><sup>24 </sup></strong>When the time came for her to give birth, look! twins were in her womb. <span id="chapter25_verse25"></span><strong><sup>25 </sup></strong>Then the first came out red all over and was like a garment of hair, so they named him E′sau.<span id="footnotesource181"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote181">*</a> <span id="chapter25_verse26"></span><strong><sup>26 </sup></strong>After that his brother came out and his hand was holding onto the heel of E′sau, so he named him Jacob.<span id="footnotesource182"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote182">*</a> Isaac was 60 years old when she gave birth to them.</p>
<p id="p212" class="p212 sb"><span id="pos92510"></span><span id="chapter25_verse27"></span><strong><sup>27 </sup></strong>As the boys got bigger, E′sau became a skilled hunter, a man of the field, but Jacob was a blameless man, dwelling in tents. <span id="chapter25_verse28"></span><strong><sup>28 </sup></strong>And Isaac loved E′sau because it meant game in his mouth, whereas Re·bek′ah loved Jacob. <span id="chapter25_verse29"></span><strong><sup>29 </sup></strong>On one occasion Jacob was boiling some stew when E′sau returned from the field exhausted. <span id="chapter25_verse30"></span><strong><sup>30 </sup></strong>So E′sau said to Jacob: “Quick, please, give me some<span id="footnotesource183"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote183">*</a> of the red stew that you have there,<span id="footnotesource184"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote184">*</a> for I am exhausted!”<span id="footnotesource185"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote185">*</a> That is why his name was E′dom.<span id="footnotesource186"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote186">*</a> <span id="chapter25_verse31"></span><strong><sup>31 </sup></strong>To this Jacob said: “First sell me your right as firstborn!” <span id="chapter25_verse32"></span><strong><sup>32 </sup></strong>And E′sau continued: “Here I am about to die! What use is a birthright to me?” <span id="chapter25_verse33"></span><strong><sup>33 </sup></strong>And Jacob added: “Swear to me first!” So he swore to him and sold his right as firstborn to Jacob. <span id="chapter25_verse34"></span><strong><sup>34 </sup></strong>Then Jacob gave E′sau bread and lentil stew, and he ate and drank, and he got up and went away. Thus E′sau despised the birthright.</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote177"><p><a href="026_GE-1-split25.xhtml#footnotesource177">^ <span class="footnoteref">Gen. 25:8</span></a> This is a poetic expression for death.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote178"><p><a href="026_GE-1-split25.xhtml#footnotesource178">^ <span class="footnoteref">Gen. 25:16</span></a> Or “walled camps.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote179"><p><a href="026_GE-1-split25.xhtml#footnotesource179">^ <span class="footnoteref">Gen. 25:17</span></a> This is a poetic expression for death.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote180"><p><a href="026_GE-1-split25.xhtml#footnotesource180">^ <span class="footnoteref">Gen. 25:18</span></a> Or possibly, “He lived in hostility to all his brothers.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote181"><p><a href="026_GE-1-split25.xhtml#footnotesource181">^ <span class="footnoteref">Gen. 25:25</span></a> Meaning “Hairy.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote182"><p><a href="026_GE-1-split25.xhtml#footnotesource182">^ <span class="footnoteref">Gen. 25:26</span></a> Meaning “One Seizing the Heel; Supplanter.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote183"><p><a href="026_GE-1-split25.xhtml#footnotesource183">^ <span class="footnoteref">Gen. 25:30</span></a> Or “give me a swallow.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote184"><p><a href="026_GE-1-split25.xhtml#footnotesource184">^ <span class="footnoteref">Gen. 25:30</span></a> Lit., “the red, this the red.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote185"><p><a href="026_GE-1-split25.xhtml#footnotesource185">^ <span class="footnoteref">Gen. 25:30</span></a> Or “famished.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote186"><p><a href="026_GE-1-split25.xhtml#footnotesource186">^ <span class="footnoteref">Gen. 25:30</span></a> Meaning “Red.”</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
