<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>Genesis 5</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/docclass1.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
<p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">Genesis</a>  <a href="biblechapternav1.xhtml">5</a> : <a href="bibleversenav1_5.xhtml">1 - 32</a></p>
<p id="p42" class="p42 sb"><span id="pos15451"></span><span id="chapter5"></span><span id="chapter5_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>5 </strong></span>This is the book of Adam’s history. In the day that God created Adam, he made him in the likeness of God. <span id="chapter5_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2 </sup></strong>Male and female he created them. On the day they were created, he blessed them and named them Man.<span id="footnotesource42"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote42">*</a></p>
<p id="p43" class="p43 sb"><span id="chapter5_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3 </sup></strong>Adam lived for 130 years and then became father to a son in his likeness, in his image, and he named him Seth. <span id="pos15783"></span><span id="chapter5_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4 </sup></strong>After becoming father to Seth, Adam lived for 800 years. And he became father to sons and daughters. <span id="chapter5_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5 </sup></strong>So all the days of Adam’s life amounted to 930 years, and then he died.</p>
<p id="p44" class="p44 sb"><span id="chapter5_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6 </sup></strong>Seth lived for 105 years and then became father to E′nosh. <span id="chapter5_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7 </sup></strong>After becoming father to E′nosh, Seth lived for 807 years. And he became father to sons and daughters. <span id="chapter5_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8 </sup></strong>So all the days of Seth amounted to 912 years, and then he died.</p>
<p id="p45" class="p45 sb"><span id="chapter5_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9 </sup></strong>E′nosh lived for 90 years and then became father to Ke′nan. <span id="chapter5_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10 </sup></strong>After becoming father to Ke′nan, E′nosh lived for 815 years. And he became father to sons and daughters. <span id="chapter5_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11 </sup></strong>So all the days of E′nosh amounted to 905 years, and then he died.</p>
<p id="p46" class="p46 sb"><span id="chapter5_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12 </sup></strong>Ke′nan lived for 70 years and then became father to Ma·hal′a·lel. <span id="chapter5_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13 </sup></strong>After becoming father to Ma·hal′a·lel, Ke′nan lived for 840 years. And he became father to sons and daughters. <span id="chapter5_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14 </sup></strong>So all the days of Ke′nan amounted to 910 years, and then he died.</p>
<p id="p47" class="p47 sb"><span id="chapter5_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15 </sup></strong>Ma·hal′a·lel lived for 65 years and then became father to Ja′red. <span id="chapter5_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16 </sup></strong>After becoming father to Ja′red, Ma·hal′a·lel lived for 830 years. And he became father to sons and daughters. <span id="chapter5_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17 </sup></strong>So all the days of Ma·hal′a·lel amounted to 895 years, and then he died.</p>
<p id="p48" class="p48 sb"><span id="chapter5_verse18"></span><strong><sup>18 </sup></strong>Ja′red lived for 162 years and then became father to E′noch. <span id="chapter5_verse19"></span><strong><sup>19 </sup></strong>After becoming father to E′noch, Ja′red lived for 800 years. And he became father to sons and daughters. <span id="chapter5_verse20"></span><strong><sup>20 </sup></strong>So all the days of Ja′red amounted to 962 years, and then he died.</p>
<p id="p49" class="p49 sb"><span id="pos17248"></span><span id="chapter5_verse21"></span><strong><sup>21 </sup></strong>E′noch lived for 65 years and then became father to Me·thu′se·lah. <span id="chapter5_verse22"></span><strong><sup>22 </sup></strong>After becoming father to Me·thu′se·lah, E′noch <span id="page49"></span>continued to walk with the true God<span id="footnotesource43"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote43">*</a> for 300 years. And he became father to sons and daughters. <span id="chapter5_verse23"></span><strong><sup>23 </sup></strong>So all the days of E′noch amounted to 365 years. <span id="chapter5_verse24"></span><strong><sup>24 </sup></strong>E′noch kept walking with the true God. Then he was no more, for God took him.</p>
<p id="p50" class="p50 sb"><span id="chapter5_verse25"></span><strong><sup>25 </sup></strong>Me·thu′se·lah lived for 187 years and then became father to La′mech. <span id="chapter5_verse26"></span><strong><sup>26 </sup></strong>After becoming father to La′mech, Me·thu′se·lah lived for 782 years. And he became father to sons and daughters. <span id="chapter5_verse27"></span><strong><sup>27 </sup></strong>So all the days of Me·thu′se·lah amounted to 969 years, and then he died.</p>
<p id="p51" class="p51 sb"><span id="chapter5_verse28"></span><strong><sup>28 </sup></strong>La′mech lived for 182 years and then became father to a son. <span id="chapter5_verse29"></span><strong><sup>29 </sup></strong>He named him Noah,<span id="footnotesource44"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote44">*</a> saying: “This one will bring us comfort<span id="footnotesource45"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote45">*</a> from our labor and from the painful toil of our hands because of the ground that Jehovah has cursed.” <span id="chapter5_verse30"></span><strong><sup>30 </sup></strong>After becoming father to Noah, La′mech lived for 595 years. And he became father to sons and daughters. <span id="chapter5_verse31"></span><strong><sup>31 </sup></strong>So all the days of La′mech amounted to 777 years, and then he died.</p>
<p id="p52" class="p52 sb"><span id="chapter5_verse32"></span><strong><sup>32 </sup></strong>After Noah reached 500 years of age, he became father to Shem, Ham, and Ja′pheth.</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote42"><p><a href="026_GE-1-split5.xhtml#footnotesource42">^ <span class="footnoteref">Gen. 5:2</span></a> Or “Adam; Mankind.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote43"><p><a href="026_GE-1-split5.xhtml#footnotesource43">^ <span class="footnoteref">Gen. 5:22</span></a> Lit., “the God.” See Glossary.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote44"><p><a href="026_GE-1-split5.xhtml#footnotesource44">^ <span class="footnoteref">Gen. 5:29</span></a> Probably meaning “Rest; Consolation.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote45"><p><a href="026_GE-1-split5.xhtml#footnotesource45">^ <span class="footnoteref">Gen. 5:29</span></a> Or “relief.”</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
