<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>Genesis 14</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/docclass1.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
<p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">Genesis</a>  <a href="biblechapternav1.xhtml">14</a> : <a href="bibleversenav1_14.xhtml">1 - 24</a></p>
<p id="p127" class="p127 sb"><span id="pos43404"></span><span id="chapter14"></span><span id="chapter14_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>14 </strong></span>Now in the days of Am′ra·phel king of Shi′nar, Ar′i·och king of El·la′sar, Ched·or·la·o′mer king of E′lam, and Ti′dal king of Goi′im, <span id="chapter14_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2 </sup></strong>these made war with Be′ra king of Sod′om, Bir′sha king of Go·mor′rah, Shi′nab king of Ad′mah, Shem·e′ber king of Ze·boi′im, and the king of Be′la, that is, Zo′ar. <span id="chapter14_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3 </sup></strong>All of these joined forces at the Valley<span id="footnotesource95"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote95">*</a> of Sid′dim, that is, the Salt Sea.<span id="footnotesource96"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote96">*</a></p>
<p id="p128" class="p128 sb"><span id="chapter14_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4 </sup></strong>They had served Ched·or·la·o′mer for 12 years, but they rebelled in the 13th year. <span id="chapter14_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5 </sup></strong>So in the 14th year, Ched·or·la·o′mer and the kings who were with him came and defeated the Reph′a·im in Ash′te·roth-kar·na′im, the Zu′zim in Ham, the E′mim in Sha′veh-kir·i·a·tha′im, <span id="chapter14_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6 </sup></strong>and the Hor′ites in their mountain of Se′ir down to El-pa′ran, which is at the wilderness. <span id="chapter14_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7 </sup></strong>Then they turned back and came to En-mish′pat, that is, Ka′desh, and conquered the whole territory of the A·mal′ek·ites and also the Am′or·ites who were dwelling in Haz′a·zon-ta′mar.</p>
<p id="p129" class="p129 sb"><span id="chapter14_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8 </sup></strong>At this point, the king of Sod′om went on the march, and also the king of Go·mor′rah, <span id="page58"></span>the king of Ad′mah, the king of Ze·boi′im, and the king of Be′la, that is, Zo′ar, and they drew up in battle formation against them in the Valley<span id="footnotesource97"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote97">*</a> of Sid′dim, <span id="chapter14_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9 </sup></strong>against Ched·or·la·o′mer king of E′lam, Ti′dal king of Goi′im, Am′ra·phel king of Shi′nar, and Ar′i·och king of El·la′sar—four kings against the five. <span id="chapter14_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10 </sup></strong>Now the Valley<span id="footnotesource98"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote98">*</a> of Sid′dim was full of bitumen pits, and the kings of Sod′om and Go·mor′rah tried to escape and fell into them, and those who remained fled to the mountainous region. <span id="chapter14_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11 </sup></strong>Then the victors took all the goods of Sod′om and Go·mor′rah and all their food and went on their way. <span id="chapter14_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12 </sup></strong>They also took Lot, the son of A′bram’s brother who was dwelling in Sod′om, as well as his goods, and they continued on their way.</p>
<p id="p130" class="p130 sb"><span id="chapter14_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13 </sup></strong>After that a man who had escaped came and told A′bram the Hebrew. He was then dwelling<span id="footnotesource99"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote99">*</a> among the big trees of Mam′re the Am′or·ite, the brother of Esh′col and A′ner. These men were allies of A′bram. <span id="chapter14_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14 </sup></strong>Thus A′bram heard that his relative<span id="footnotesource100"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote100">*</a> had been taken captive. With that he mobilized his trained men, 318 servants born in his household, and went in pursuit up to Dan. <span id="chapter14_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15 </sup></strong>During the night, he divided his forces, and he and his servants attacked and defeated them. And he pursued them up to Ho′bah, which is north of Damascus. <span id="chapter14_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16 </sup></strong>He recovered all the goods, and he also recovered Lot his relative, his goods, the women, and the other people.</p>
<p id="p131" class="p131 sb"><span id="pos45877"></span><span id="chapter14_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17 </sup></strong>After A′bram returned from defeating Ched·or·la·o′mer and the kings who were with him, the king of Sod′om went out to meet A′bram at the Valley<span id="footnotesource101"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote101">*</a> of Sha′veh, that is, the Valley of the King. <span id="chapter14_verse18"></span><strong><sup>18 </sup></strong>And Mel·chiz′e·dek king of Sa′lem brought out bread and wine; he was priest of the Most High God.</p>
<p id="p132" class="p132 sb"><span id="chapter14_verse19"></span><strong><sup>19 </sup></strong>Then he blessed him and said:</p>
<p id="p133" class="p133 sz">“Blessed be A′bram by the Most High God,</p>
<p class="p133 sz">Maker of heaven and earth;</p>
<p class="p133 sz"><span id="chapter14_verse20"></span><strong><sup>20 </sup></strong>And praised be the Most High God,</p>
<p class="p133 sz">Who has handed your oppressors over to you!”</p>
<p id="p134" class="p134 sb">And A′bram gave him a tenth of everything.</p>
<p id="p135" class="p135 sb"><span id="chapter14_verse21"></span><strong><sup>21 </sup></strong>After that the king of Sod′om said to A′bram: “Give me the people,<span id="footnotesource102"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote102">*</a> but take the goods for yourself.” <span id="chapter14_verse22"></span><strong><sup>22 </sup></strong>But A′bram said to the king of Sod′om: “I raise my hand in an oath to Jehovah the Most High God, Maker of heaven and earth, <span id="chapter14_verse23"></span><strong><sup>23 </sup></strong>that I will not take anything that is yours, from a thread to a sandal lace, so that you may not say, ‘I made A′bram rich.’ <span id="chapter14_verse24"></span><strong><sup>24 </sup></strong>I will take nothing except what the young men have already eaten. As for the share of the men who went with me, A′ner, Esh′col, and Mam′re—let them take their share.”</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote95"><p><a href="026_GE-1-split14.xhtml#footnotesource95">^ <span class="footnoteref">Gen. 14:3</span></a> Or “Low Plain.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote96"><p><a href="026_GE-1-split14.xhtml#footnotesource96">^ <span class="footnoteref">Gen. 14:3</span></a> That is, the Dead Sea.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote97"><p><a href="026_GE-1-split14.xhtml#footnotesource97">^ <span class="footnoteref">Gen. 14:8</span></a> Or “Low Plain.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote98"><p><a href="026_GE-1-split14.xhtml#footnotesource98">^ <span class="footnoteref">Gen. 14:10</span></a> Or “Low Plain.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote99"><p><a href="026_GE-1-split14.xhtml#footnotesource99">^ <span class="footnoteref">Gen. 14:13</span></a> Or “dwelling in tents.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote100"><p><a href="026_GE-1-split14.xhtml#footnotesource100">^ <span class="footnoteref">Gen. 14:14</span></a> Lit., “brother.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote101"><p><a href="026_GE-1-split14.xhtml#footnotesource101">^ <span class="footnoteref">Gen. 14:17</span></a> Or “Low Plain.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote102"><p><a href="026_GE-1-split14.xhtml#footnotesource102">^ <span class="footnoteref">Gen. 14:21</span></a> Or “souls.”</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
