<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>Genesis 4</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/docclass1.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
<p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">Genesis</a>  <a href="biblechapternav1.xhtml">4</a> : <a href="bibleversenav1_4.xhtml">1 - 26</a></p>
<p id="p32" class="p32 sb"><span id="pos11840"></span><span id="chapter4"></span><span id="chapter4_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>4 </strong></span>Now Adam had sexual relations with his wife Eve, and she became pregnant. When she gave birth to Cain, she said: “I have produced<span id="footnotesource32"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote32">*</a> a male child with the help of Jehovah.” <span id="chapter4_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2 </sup></strong>Later she again gave birth, to his brother Abel.</p>
<p id="p33" class="p33 sb">Abel became a shepherd of the flock, but Cain became a cultivator of the ground. <span id="chapter4_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3 </sup></strong>After some time, Cain brought some fruits of the land as an offering to Jehovah. <span id="chapter4_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4 </sup></strong>But Abel brought some firstlings of his flock, including their fat. While Jehovah looked with favor on Abel and on his offering, <span id="chapter4_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5 </sup></strong>he did not look with any favor on Cain and on his offering. So Cain grew hot with anger and was dejected.<span id="footnotesource33"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote33">*</a> <span id="chapter4_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6 </sup></strong>Then Jehovah said to Cain: “Why are you so angry and dejected? <span id="chapter4_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7 </sup></strong>If you turn to doing good, will you not be restored to favor?<span id="footnotesource34"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote34">*</a> But if you do not turn to doing good, sin is crouching at the door, and its craving is to dominate you; but will you get the mastery over it?”</p>
<p id="p34" class="p34 sb"><span id="chapter4_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8 </sup></strong>After that Cain said to his brother Abel: “Let us go over into the field.” So while they were in the field, Cain assaulted his brother Abel and killed him. <span id="chapter4_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9 </sup></strong>Later on, Jehovah said to Cain: “Where is your brother Abel?” and he said: “I do not know. Am I my brother’s guardian?” <span id="chapter4_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10 </sup></strong>At this He said: “What have you done? Listen! Your brother’s blood is crying out to me from the ground. <span id="chapter4_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11 </sup></strong>And now you are cursed in banishment from the ground that has opened its mouth to receive your brother’s blood from your hand. <span id="chapter4_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12 </sup></strong>When you cultivate the ground, it will not give you back its produce.<span id="footnotesource35"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote35">*</a> You will become a wanderer and a fugitive in the earth.” <span id="chapter4_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13 </sup></strong>At this Cain said to Jehovah: “The punishment for my error is too great to bear. <span id="chapter4_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14 </sup></strong>Today you are driving me from the land,<span id="footnotesource36"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote36">*</a> and I will be hidden from your face; and I will become a wanderer and a fugitive on the earth, and anyone who finds me will certainly kill me.” <span id="chapter4_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15 </sup></strong>So Jehovah said to him: “For that reason, anyone who kills Cain will suffer vengeance seven times.”</p>
<p id="p35" class="p35 sb">So Jehovah set up<span id="footnotesource37"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote37">*</a> a sign for Cain in order that no one finding him would strike him. <span id="chapter4_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16 </sup></strong>Then Cain went away from before Jehovah and took up residence in the land of Exile,<span id="footnotesource38"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote38">*</a> to the east of E′den.</p>
<p id="p36" class="p36 sb"><span id="pos14005"></span><span id="chapter4_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17 </sup></strong>Afterward Cain had sexual relations with his wife, and she became pregnant and gave birth to E′noch. Then he engaged in building a city and named the city after his son E′noch. <span id="chapter4_verse18"></span><strong><sup>18 </sup></strong>Later I′rad was born to E′noch. And I′rad became father to Me·hu′ja·el, and Me·hu′ja·el became father to Me·thu′sha·el, and Me·thu′sha·el became father to La′mech.</p>
<p id="p37" class="p37 sb"><span id="chapter4_verse19"></span><strong><sup>19 </sup></strong>La′mech took two wives for himself. The name of the first <span id="page48"></span>was A′dah, and the name of the second was Zil′lah. <span id="chapter4_verse20"></span><strong><sup>20 </sup></strong>A′dah gave birth to Ja′bal. He was the founder of those who dwell in tents and have livestock. <span id="chapter4_verse21"></span><strong><sup>21 </sup></strong>His brother’s name was Ju′bal. He was the founder of all those who play the harp and the pipe.<span id="footnotesource39"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote39">*</a> <span id="chapter4_verse22"></span><strong><sup>22 </sup></strong>Also, Zil′lah gave birth to Tu′bal-cain, who forged every sort of tool of copper and iron. And the sister of Tu′bal-cain was Na′a·mah. <span id="chapter4_verse23"></span><strong><sup>23 </sup></strong>Then La′mech composed these words for his wives A′dah and Zil′lah:</p>
<p id="p38" class="p38 sz">“Hear my voice, you wives of La′mech;</p>
<p class="p38 sz">Give ear to my saying:</p>
<p id="p39" class="p39 sz">A man I have killed for wounding me,</p>
<p class="p39 sz">Yes, a young man for striking me.</p>
<p id="p40" class="p40 sl"><span id="chapter4_verse24"></span><strong><sup>24 </sup></strong>If 7 times Cain is to be avenged,</p>
<p class="p40 sl">Then La′mech 77 times.”</p>
<p id="p41" class="p41 sb"><span id="pos15109"></span><span id="chapter4_verse25"></span><strong><sup>25 </sup></strong>Adam again had sexual relations with his wife, and she gave birth to a son. She named him Seth<span id="footnotesource40"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote40">*</a> because, as she said, “God has appointed for me another offspring<span id="footnotesource41"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote41">*</a> in place of Abel, because Cain killed him.” <span id="chapter4_verse26"></span><strong><sup>26 </sup></strong>There was also born to Seth a son, and he named him E′nosh. At that time people began calling on the name of Jehovah.</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote32"><p><a href="026_GE-1-split4.xhtml#footnotesource32">^ <span class="footnoteref">Gen. 4:1</span></a> Or “given birth to.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote33"><p><a href="026_GE-1-split4.xhtml#footnotesource33">^ <span class="footnoteref">Gen. 4:5</span></a> Lit., “and his face fell.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote34"><p><a href="026_GE-1-split4.xhtml#footnotesource34">^ <span class="footnoteref">Gen. 4:7</span></a> Or “will there not be an exaltation?”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote35"><p><a href="026_GE-1-split4.xhtml#footnotesource35">^ <span class="footnoteref">Gen. 4:12</span></a> Lit., “power.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote36"><p><a href="026_GE-1-split4.xhtml#footnotesource36">^ <span class="footnoteref">Gen. 4:14</span></a> Lit., “from the face of the ground.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote37"><p><a href="026_GE-1-split4.xhtml#footnotesource37">^ <span class="footnoteref">Gen. 4:15</span></a> Or “established.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote38"><p><a href="026_GE-1-split4.xhtml#footnotesource38">^ <span class="footnoteref">Gen. 4:16</span></a> Or “the land of Nod.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote39"><p><a href="026_GE-1-split4.xhtml#footnotesource39">^ <span class="footnoteref">Gen. 4:21</span></a> Or “flute.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote40"><p><a href="026_GE-1-split4.xhtml#footnotesource40">^ <span class="footnoteref">Gen. 4:25</span></a> Meaning “Appointed; Put; Set.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote41"><p><a href="026_GE-1-split4.xhtml#footnotesource41">^ <span class="footnoteref">Gen. 4:25</span></a> Lit., “seed.”</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
