<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>Exodus 6</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/docclass1.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
<p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">Exodus</a>  <a href="biblechapternav2.xhtml">6</a> : <a href="bibleversenav2_6.xhtml">1 - 30</a></p>
<p id="p31" class="p31 sb"><span id="pos18496"></span><span id="chapter6"></span><span id="chapter6_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>6 </strong></span>So Jehovah said to Moses: “Now you will see what I will do to Phar′aoh. A mighty hand will force him to send them away, and a mighty hand will force him to drive them out of his land.”</p>
<p id="p32" class="p32 sb"><span id="pos18686"></span><span id="chapter6_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2 </sup></strong>Then God said to Moses: “I am Jehovah. <span id="chapter6_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3 </sup></strong>And I used to appear to Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob as God Almighty, but with regard to my name Jehovah I did not make myself known to them. <span id="chapter6_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4 </sup></strong>I also established my covenant with them to give them the land of Ca′naan, the land in which they lived as foreigners. <span id="chapter6_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5 </sup></strong>Now I myself have heard the groaning of the people of Israel, whom the Egyptians are enslaving, and I remember my covenant.</p>
<p id="p33" class="p33 sb"><span id="chapter6_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6 </sup></strong>“Therefore, say to the Israelites: ‘I am Jehovah, and I will bring you out from under the burdens of the Egyptians and rescue you from their slavery, and I will reclaim you with an outstretched<span id="footnotesource27"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote27">*</a> arm and with <span id="page120"></span>great judgments. <span id="chapter6_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7 </sup></strong>And I will take you in as my people, and I will be your God, and you will certainly know that I am Jehovah your God who is bringing you out from under the burdens of Egypt. <span id="chapter6_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8 </sup></strong>And I will bring you into the land that I swore with an oath<span id="footnotesource28"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote28">*</a> to give to Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob; and I will give it to you as something to possess. I am Jehovah.’”</p>
<p id="p34" class="p34 sb"><span id="chapter6_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9 </sup></strong>Moses later gave this message to the Israelites, but they did not listen to Moses because of their discouragement and because of the harsh slavery.</p>
<p id="p35" class="p35 sb"><span id="chapter6_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10 </sup></strong>Then Jehovah spoke to Moses, saying: <span id="chapter6_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11 </sup></strong>“Go in and tell Phar′aoh, Egypt’s king, that he should send the Israelites away out of his land.” <span id="chapter6_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12 </sup></strong>However, Moses replied to Jehovah: “Look! The Israelites have not listened to me; how will Phar′aoh ever listen to me, as I speak with difficulty?”<span id="footnotesource29"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote29">*</a> <span id="chapter6_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13 </sup></strong>But Jehovah again told Moses and Aaron what commands to give to the Israelites and to Phar′aoh, Egypt’s king, in order to bring the Israelites out of the land of Egypt.</p>
<p id="p36" class="p36 sb"><span id="pos20348"></span><span id="chapter6_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14 </sup></strong>These are the heads of the house of their fathers: The sons of Reu′ben, Israel’s firstborn, were Ha′noch, Pal′lu, Hez′ron, and Car′mi. These are the families of Reu′ben.</p>
<p id="p37" class="p37 sb"><span id="chapter6_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15 </sup></strong>The sons of Sim′e·on were Jem·u′el, Ja′min, O′had, Ja′chin, Zo′har, and Sha′ul, the son of a Ca′naan·ite woman. These are the families of Sim′e·on.</p>
<p id="p38" class="p38 sb"><span id="chapter6_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16 </sup></strong>These are the names of the sons of Le′vi, according to their family descents: Ger′shon, Ko′hath, and Me·rar′i. The length of Le′vi’s life was 137 years.</p>
<p id="p39" class="p39 sb"><span id="chapter6_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17 </sup></strong>The sons of Ger′shon were Lib′ni and Shim′e·i, according to their families.</p>
<p id="p40" class="p40 sb"><span id="chapter6_verse18"></span><strong><sup>18 </sup></strong>The sons of Ko′hath were Am′ram, Iz′har, Heb′ron, and Uz′zi·el. The length of Ko′hath’s life was 133 years.</p>
<p id="p41" class="p41 sb"><span id="chapter6_verse19"></span><strong><sup>19 </sup></strong>The sons of Me·rar′i were Mah′li and Mu′shi.</p>
<p id="p42" class="p42 sb">These were the families of the Levites, according to their family descents.</p>
<p id="p43" class="p43 sb"><span id="chapter6_verse20"></span><strong><sup>20 </sup></strong>Now Am′ram took Joch′e·bed, his father’s sister, as his wife. She bore him Aaron and Moses. The length of Am′ram’s life was 137 years.</p>
<p id="p44" class="p44 sb"><span id="chapter6_verse21"></span><strong><sup>21 </sup></strong>The sons of Iz′har were Kor′ah, Ne′pheg, and Zich′ri.</p>
<p id="p45" class="p45 sb"><span id="chapter6_verse22"></span><strong><sup>22 </sup></strong>The sons of Uz′zi·el were Mish′a·el, El·za′phan, and Sith′ri.</p>
<p id="p46" class="p46 sb"><span id="chapter6_verse23"></span><strong><sup>23 </sup></strong>Now Aaron took E·li′she·ba, Am·min′a·dab’s daughter, the sister of Nah′shon, as his wife. She bore him Na′dab, A·bi′hu, El·e·a′zar, and Ith′a·mar.</p>
<p id="p47" class="p47 sb"><span id="chapter6_verse24"></span><strong><sup>24 </sup></strong>The sons of Kor′ah were As′sir, El·ka′nah, and A·bi′a·saph. These were the families of the Kor′ah·ites.</p>
<p id="p48" class="p48 sb"><span id="chapter6_verse25"></span><strong><sup>25 </sup></strong>El·e·a′zar, Aaron’s son, took one of the daughters of Pu′ti·el as his wife. She bore him Phin′e·has.</p>
<p id="p49" class="p49 sb">These are the heads of the paternal houses of the Levites, according to their families.</p>
<p id="p50" class="p50 sb"><span id="chapter6_verse26"></span><strong><sup>26 </sup></strong>This is the Aaron and Moses to whom Jehovah said: “Bring the people of Israel out of the land of Egypt, company by company.”<span id="footnotesource30"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote30">*</a> <span id="chapter6_verse27"></span><strong><sup>27 </sup></strong>It was they who spoke to Phar′aoh, Egypt’s king, to bring the people of Israel out of Egypt. It was this Moses and Aaron.</p>
<p id="p51" class="p51 sb"><span id="pos22181"></span><span id="chapter6_verse28"></span><strong><sup>28 </sup></strong>On that day when Jehovah spoke to Moses in the land of Egypt, <span id="chapter6_verse29"></span><strong><sup>29 </sup></strong>Jehovah told Moses: “I am Jehovah. Speak to Phar′aoh, king of Egypt, everything I am speaking to you.” <span id="chapter6_verse30"></span><strong><sup>30 </sup></strong>Then Moses said before Jehovah: <span id="page121"></span>“Look! I speak with difficulty,<span id="footnotesource31"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote31">*</a> so how will Phar′aoh ever listen to me?”</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote27"><p><a href="028_EX-1-split6.xhtml#footnotesource27">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ex. 6:6</span></a> Or “a powerful.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote28"><p><a href="028_EX-1-split6.xhtml#footnotesource28">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ex. 6:8</span></a> Lit., “I raised my hand.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote29"><p><a href="028_EX-1-split6.xhtml#footnotesource29">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ex. 6:12</span></a> Lit., “I am uncircumcised in lips.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote30"><p><a href="028_EX-1-split6.xhtml#footnotesource30">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ex. 6:26</span></a> Lit., “according to their armies.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote31"><p><a href="028_EX-1-split6.xhtml#footnotesource31">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ex. 6:30</span></a> Lit., “I am uncircumcised in lips.”</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
