<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>Numbers 21</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/docclass1.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
<p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">Numbers</a>  <a href="biblechapternav4.xhtml">21</a> : <a href="bibleversenav4_21.xhtml">1 - 35</a></p>
<p id="p210" class="p210 sb"><span id="pos104222"></span><span id="chapter21"></span><span id="chapter21_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>21 </strong></span>When the Ca′naan·ite king of A′rad, who dwelled in the Neg′eb, heard that Israel had come by the way of Ath′a·rim, he attacked Israel and carried away some of them as captives. <span id="chapter21_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2 </sup></strong>So Israel made this vow to Jehovah: “If you give this people into my hand, I will without fail devote their cities to destruction.” <span id="chapter21_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3 </sup></strong>So Jehovah listened to Israel’s voice and gave the Ca′naan·ites over to them, and they devoted them and their cities to destruction. Therefore, they named the place Hor′mah.<span id="footnotesource152"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote152">*</a></p>
<p id="p211" class="p211 sb"><span id="pos104721"></span><span id="chapter21_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4 </sup></strong>As they continued their journey from Mount Hor by the way of the Red Sea in order to go around the land of E′dom, the people<span id="footnotesource153"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote153">*</a> became weary of the journey. <span id="chapter21_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5 </sup></strong>And the people kept speaking against God and Moses, saying: “Why have you brought us up out of Egypt to die in the wilderness? There is no food and no water, and we<span id="footnotesource154"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote154">*</a> have come to hate<span id="footnotesource155"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote155">*</a> this contemptible bread.” <span id="chapter21_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6 </sup></strong>So Jehovah sent poisonous<span id="footnotesource156"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote156">*</a> serpents among the people, and they kept biting the people, so that many Israelites died.</p>
<p id="p212" class="p212 sb"><span id="chapter21_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7 </sup></strong>So the people came to Moses and said: “We have sinned by speaking against Jehovah and against you. Intercede with Jehovah so that he may remove the serpents from us.” And Moses interceded on behalf of the people. <span id="chapter21_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8 </sup></strong>Then Jehovah said to Moses: “Make a replica of a poisonous<span id="footnotesource157"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote157">*</a> snake and put it on a pole. Then when anyone has been bitten, he will have to look at it in order to keep alive.” <span id="chapter21_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9 </sup></strong>Moses at once made a serpent of copper and put it on the pole, and whenever a serpent had bitten a man and he looked at the copper serpent, he survived.</p>
<p id="p213" class="p213 sb"><span id="pos105779"></span><span id="chapter21_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10 </sup></strong>After that the Israelites departed and camped in O′both. <span id="chapter21_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11 </sup></strong>Then they departed from O′both and camped in I′ye-ab′a·rim, in the wilderness that faces Mo′ab, toward the east. <span id="chapter21_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12 </sup></strong>From there they departed and camped by the Valley<span id="footnotesource158"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote158">*</a> of Ze′red. <span id="chapter21_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13 </sup></strong>From there they departed and camped in the region of the Ar′non, which is in the wilderness that extends from the border of the Am′or·ites, for the Ar′non is the boundary of Mo′ab, between Mo′ab and the Am′or·ites. <span id="chapter21_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14 </sup></strong>That is why the book of the Wars of Jehovah speaks of “Va′heb in Su′phah and the valleys<span id="footnotesource159"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote159">*</a> of Ar′non, <span id="chapter21_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15 </sup></strong>and the descent<span id="footnotesource160"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote160">*</a> <span id="page249"></span>of the valleys,<span id="footnotesource161"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote161">*</a> which extends toward the settlement of Ar and adjoins the border of Mo′ab.”</p>
<p id="p214" class="p214 sb"><span id="chapter21_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16 </sup></strong>Next they went on to Be′er. This is the well about which Jehovah said to Moses: “Gather the people, and let me give them water.”</p>
<p id="p215" class="p215 sb"><span id="chapter21_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17 </sup></strong>At that time, Israel sang this song:</p>
<p id="p216" class="p216 sz">“Spring up, O well!—Respond<span id="footnotesource162"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote162">*</a> to it!</p>
<p id="p217" class="p217 sl"><span id="chapter21_verse18"></span><strong><sup>18 </sup></strong>The well that princes dug, that nobles of the people excavated,</p>
<p class="p217 sl">With a commander’s staff and with their own staffs.”</p>
<p id="p218" class="p218 sb">Then they went from the wilderness on to Mat′ta·nah, <span id="chapter21_verse19"></span><strong><sup>19 </sup></strong>from Mat′ta·nah on to Na·hal′i·el, and from Na·hal′i·el on to Ba′moth. <span id="chapter21_verse20"></span><strong><sup>20 </sup></strong>They went from Ba′moth on to the valley that is in the territory<span id="footnotesource163"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote163">*</a> of Mo′ab, on top of Pis′gah, which overlooks Je·shi′mon.<span id="footnotesource164"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote164">*</a></p>
<p id="p219" class="p219 sb"><span id="pos107097"></span><span id="chapter21_verse21"></span><strong><sup>21 </sup></strong>Israel now sent messengers to Si′hon, the king of the Am′or·ites, saying: <span id="chapter21_verse22"></span><strong><sup>22 </sup></strong>“Let us pass through your land. We will not turn aside into a field or a vineyard. We will not drink water from any well. We will march on the King’s Road until we pass through your territory.” <span id="chapter21_verse23"></span><strong><sup>23 </sup></strong>But Si′hon did not allow Israel to pass through his territory. Instead, Si′hon gathered all his people and went out against Israel in the wilderness and came to Ja′haz and began fighting with Israel. <span id="chapter21_verse24"></span><strong><sup>24 </sup></strong>But Israel defeated him with the sword and took possession of his land from the Ar′non to the Jab′bok, near the Am′mon·ites, because Ja′zer borders the territory of the Am′mon·ites.</p>
<p id="p220" class="p220 sb"><span id="chapter21_verse25"></span><strong><sup>25 </sup></strong>So Israel took all these cities, and they began dwelling in all the cities of the Am′or·ites, in Hesh′bon and all its dependent<span id="footnotesource165"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote165">*</a> towns. <span id="chapter21_verse26"></span><strong><sup>26 </sup></strong>For Hesh′bon was the city of Si′hon, the king of the Am′or·ites, who had fought with the king of Mo′ab and taken all his land from him as far as the Ar′non. <span id="chapter21_verse27"></span><strong><sup>27 </sup></strong>That is what gave rise to the taunting proverbial saying:</p>
<p id="p221" class="p221 sz">“Come to Hesh′bon.</p>
<p id="p222" class="p222 sz">Let the city of Si′hon be built and firmly established.</p>
<p id="p223" class="p223 sl"><span id="chapter21_verse28"></span><strong><sup>28 </sup></strong>For a fire came out of Hesh′bon, a flame from the town of Si′hon.</p>
<p id="p224" class="p224 sz">It has consumed Ar of Mo′ab, the lords of the high places of the Ar′non.</p>
<p id="p225" class="p225 sl"><span id="chapter21_verse29"></span><strong><sup>29 </sup></strong>Woe to you, Mo′ab! You will be destroyed, O people of Che′mosh!</p>
<p id="p226" class="p226 sz">He makes his sons fugitives and his daughters captives of Si′hon, the king of the Am′or·ites.</p>
<p id="p227" class="p227 sl"><span id="chapter21_verse30"></span><strong><sup>30 </sup></strong>Let us shoot at them;</p>
<p class="p227 sl">Hesh′bon will be destroyed as far as Di′bon;</p>
<p class="p227 sl">Let us desolate it as far as No′phah;</p>
<p class="p227 sl">Fire will spread as far as Med′e·ba.”</p>
<p id="p228" class="p228 sb"><span id="pos108708"></span><span id="chapter21_verse31"></span><strong><sup>31 </sup></strong>So Israel began to dwell in the land of the Am′or·ites. <span id="chapter21_verse32"></span><strong><sup>32 </sup></strong>Moses then sent some men to spy on Ja′zer. They captured its dependent<span id="footnotesource166"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote166">*</a> towns and drove out the Am′or·ites who were there. <span id="chapter21_verse33"></span><strong><sup>33 </sup></strong>After that they turned and went up by way of Ba′shan. And Og the king of Ba′shan came out with all his people to meet them in battle at Ed′re·i. <span id="chapter21_verse34"></span><strong><sup>34 </sup></strong>Jehovah said to Moses: “Do not be afraid of him, for I will give him and all his people and his land into your hand, and you will do to him just as you did to Si′hon the <span id="page250"></span>king of the Am′or·ites, who lived in Hesh′bon.” <span id="chapter21_verse35"></span><strong><sup>35 </sup></strong>So they kept striking him down, along with his sons and all his people, until none of his people survived, and they took possession of his land.</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote152"><p><a href="032_NU-1-split21.xhtml#footnotesource152">^ <span class="footnoteref">Num. 21:3</span></a> Meaning “A Devoting to Destruction.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote153"><p><a href="032_NU-1-split21.xhtml#footnotesource153">^ <span class="footnoteref">Num. 21:4</span></a> Or “the soul of the people.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote154"><p><a href="032_NU-1-split21.xhtml#footnotesource154">^ <span class="footnoteref">Num. 21:5</span></a> Or “our souls.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote155"><p><a href="032_NU-1-split21.xhtml#footnotesource155">^ <span class="footnoteref">Num. 21:5</span></a> Or “abhor.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote156"><p><a href="032_NU-1-split21.xhtml#footnotesource156">^ <span class="footnoteref">Num. 21:6</span></a> Or “fiery.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote157"><p><a href="032_NU-1-split21.xhtml#footnotesource157">^ <span class="footnoteref">Num. 21:8</span></a> Or “fiery.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote158"><p><a href="032_NU-1-split21.xhtml#footnotesource158">^ <span class="footnoteref">Num. 21:12</span></a> Or “Wadi.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote159"><p><a href="032_NU-1-split21.xhtml#footnotesource159">^ <span class="footnoteref">Num. 21:14</span></a> Or “wadis.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote160"><p><a href="032_NU-1-split21.xhtml#footnotesource160">^ <span class="footnoteref">Num. 21:15</span></a> Lit., “mouth.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote161"><p><a href="032_NU-1-split21.xhtml#footnotesource161">^ <span class="footnoteref">Num. 21:15</span></a> Or “wadis.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote162"><p><a href="032_NU-1-split21.xhtml#footnotesource162">^ <span class="footnoteref">Num. 21:17</span></a> Or “Sing.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote163"><p><a href="032_NU-1-split21.xhtml#footnotesource163">^ <span class="footnoteref">Num. 21:20</span></a> Lit., “field.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote164"><p><a href="032_NU-1-split21.xhtml#footnotesource164">^ <span class="footnoteref">Num. 21:20</span></a> Or possibly, “the desert; the wilderness.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote165"><p><a href="032_NU-1-split21.xhtml#footnotesource165">^ <span class="footnoteref">Num. 21:25</span></a> Or “surrounding.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote166"><p><a href="032_NU-1-split21.xhtml#footnotesource166">^ <span class="footnoteref">Num. 21:32</span></a> Or “surrounding.”</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
