<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>Numbers 2</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/docclass1.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
<p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">Numbers</a>  <a href="biblechapternav4.xhtml">2</a> : <a href="bibleversenav4_2.xhtml">1 - 34</a></p>
<p id="p21" class="p21 sb"><span id="pos6452"></span><span id="chapter2"></span><span id="chapter2_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>2 </strong></span>Jehovah now spoke to Moses and Aaron, saying: <span id="chapter2_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2 </sup></strong>“The Israelites should encamp where their three-tribe division is assigned, each man near the banner<span id="footnotesource8"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote8">*</a> of his paternal house. They should camp facing the tent of meeting, all around it.</p>
<p id="p22" class="p22 sb"><span id="pos6691"></span><span id="chapter2_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3 </sup></strong>“Those camping on the east side, toward the sunrise, will be the three-tribe division of the encampment of Judah by their companies;<span id="footnotesource9"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote9">*</a> the chieftain for the sons of Judah is Nah′shon the son of Am·min′a·dab. <span id="chapter2_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4 </sup></strong>Those registered in his army are 74,600. <span id="chapter2_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5 </sup></strong>Camping alongside him will be the tribe of Is′sa·char; the chieftain for the sons of Is′sa·char is Ne·than′el the son of Zu′ar. <span id="chapter2_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6 </sup></strong>Those registered in his army are 54,400. <span id="chapter2_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7 </sup></strong>Next is the tribe of Zeb′u·lun; the chieftain for the sons of Zeb′u·lun is E·li′ab the son of He′lon. <span id="chapter2_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8 </sup></strong>Those registered in his army are 57,400.</p>
<p id="p23" class="p23 sb"><span id="chapter2_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9 </sup></strong>“All those registered in the armies of the camp of Judah are 186,400. They should break camp first.</p>
<p id="p24" class="p24 sb"><span id="pos7385"></span><span id="chapter2_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10 </sup></strong>“The three-tribe division of the encampment of Reu′ben by their companies<span id="footnotesource10"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote10">*</a> will be toward the south; the chieftain for the sons of Reu′ben is E·li′zur the son of Shed′e·ur. <span id="chapter2_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11 </sup></strong>Those registered in his army are 46,500. <span id="chapter2_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12 </sup></strong>Camping alongside him will be the tribe of Sim′e·on; the chieftain for the sons of Sim′e·on is She·lu′mi·el the son of Zu·ri·shad′dai. <span id="chapter2_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13 </sup></strong>Those registered in his army are 59,300. <span id="chapter2_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14 </sup></strong>Next is the tribe of Gad; the chieftain for the sons of Gad is E·li′a·saph the son of Reu′el. <span id="chapter2_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15 </sup></strong>Those registered in his army are 45,650.</p>
<p id="p25" class="p25 sb"><span id="chapter2_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16 </sup></strong>“All those registered in the armies of the camp of Reu′ben are 151,450, and they should break camp second.</p>
<p id="p26" class="p26 sb"><span id="pos8074"></span><span id="chapter2_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17 </sup></strong>“When the tent of meeting is moved, the camp of the Levites should be in the middle of the other camps.</p>
<p id="p27" class="p27 sb">“They should travel in the same order as they encamp, with each in his place, according to their three-tribe divisions.</p>
<p id="p28" class="p28 sb"><span id="pos8307"></span><span id="chapter2_verse18"></span><strong><sup>18 </sup></strong>“The three-tribe division of the encampment of E′phra·im by their companies<span id="footnotesource11"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote11">*</a> will be toward the west; the chieftain for the sons of E′phra·im is E·lish′a·ma the son of Am·mi′hud. <span id="chapter2_verse19"></span><strong><sup>19 </sup></strong>Those registered in his army are 40,500. <span id="chapter2_verse20"></span><strong><sup>20 </sup></strong>Next to him will be the tribe of Ma·nas′seh; the chieftain for the sons of Ma·nas′seh is Ga·ma′li·el the son of Pe·dah′zur. <span id="chapter2_verse21"></span><strong><sup>21 </sup></strong>Those registered in his army are 32,200. <span id="chapter2_verse22"></span><strong><sup>22 </sup></strong>Next is the tribe of Benjamin; the chieftain for the sons of Benjamin is Ab′i·dan the son of Gid·e·o′ni. <span id="chapter2_verse23"></span><strong><sup>23 </sup></strong>Those registered in his army are 35,400.</p>
<p id="p29" class="p29 sb"><span id="chapter2_verse24"></span><strong><sup>24 </sup></strong>“All those registered in the armies of the camp of E′phra·im are 108,100, and they should break camp third.</p>
<p id="p30" class="p30 sb"><span id="pos9003"></span><span id="chapter2_verse25"></span><strong><sup>25 </sup></strong>“The three-tribe division of the encampment of Dan by their companies<span id="footnotesource12"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote12">*</a> will be toward the north; the chieftain for the sons of Dan is A·hi·e′zer the son of Am·mi·shad′dai. <span id="chapter2_verse26"></span><strong><sup>26 </sup></strong>Those registered in his army are 62,700. <span id="chapter2_verse27"></span><strong><sup>27 </sup></strong>Camping alongside him will be the tribe of Ash′er; the chieftain for the sons of Ash′er is Pa′gi·el the son of Och′ran. <span id="chapter2_verse28"></span><strong><sup>28 </sup></strong>Those registered in his army are 41,500. <span id="chapter2_verse29"></span><strong><sup>29 </sup></strong>Next is the tribe of Naph′ta·li; the chieftain for the sons of Naph′ta·li is A·hi′ra the son of <span id="page218"></span>E′nan. <span id="chapter2_verse30"></span><strong><sup>30 </sup></strong>Those registered in his army are 53,400.</p>
<p id="p31" class="p31 sb"><span id="chapter2_verse31"></span><strong><sup>31 </sup></strong>“All those registered in the camp of Dan are 157,600. They should break camp last, according to their three-tribe divisions.”</p>
<p id="p32" class="p32 sb"><span id="pos9707"></span><span id="chapter2_verse32"></span><strong><sup>32 </sup></strong>These were the Israelites who were registered according to their paternal houses; the total of those in the camps registered for the army was 603,550. <span id="chapter2_verse33"></span><strong><sup>33 </sup></strong>But the Levites did not get registered along with the other Israelites, just as Jehovah had commanded Moses. <span id="chapter2_verse34"></span><strong><sup>34 </sup></strong>The Israelites did everything that Jehovah had commanded Moses. This is how they encamped by their three-tribe divisions and how they broke camp, each by family and according to their paternal houses.</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote8"><p><a href="032_NU-1-split2.xhtml#footnotesource8">^ <span class="footnoteref">Num. 2:2</span></a> Or “sign.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote9"><p><a href="032_NU-1-split2.xhtml#footnotesource9">^ <span class="footnoteref">Num. 2:3</span></a> Lit., “according to their armies.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote10"><p><a href="032_NU-1-split2.xhtml#footnotesource10">^ <span class="footnoteref">Num. 2:10</span></a> Lit., “according to their armies.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote11"><p><a href="032_NU-1-split2.xhtml#footnotesource11">^ <span class="footnoteref">Num. 2:18</span></a> Lit., “according to their armies.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote12"><p><a href="032_NU-1-split2.xhtml#footnotesource12">^ <span class="footnoteref">Num. 2:25</span></a> Lit., “according to their armies.”</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
