<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>Numbers 33</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/docclass1.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
<p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">Numbers</a>  <a href="biblechapternav4.xhtml">33</a> : <a href="bibleversenav4_33.xhtml">1 - 56</a></p>
<p id="p373" class="p373 sb"><span id="pos162103"></span><span id="chapter33"></span><span id="chapter33_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>33 </strong></span>These were the stages of the journey of the people of Israel when they went out of the land of Egypt by their companies<span id="footnotesource231"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote231">*</a> under the direction of Moses and Aaron. <span id="chapter33_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2 </sup></strong>Moses kept recording the departure places by the stages of their journey at the order of Jehovah, and these were their stages from one departure place to another: <span id="chapter33_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3 </sup></strong>They departed from Ram′e·ses in the first month, on the 15th day of the month. On the very day after the Passover, the Israelites went out with confidence<span id="footnotesource232"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote232">*</a> before the eyes of all the Egyptians. <span id="chapter33_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4 </sup></strong>Meanwhile, the Egyptians were burying all the firstborn whom Jehovah had struck down among them, for Jehovah had executed judgments on their gods.</p>
<p id="p374" class="p374 sb"><span id="chapter33_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5 </sup></strong>So the Israelites departed from Ram′e·ses and camped at Suc′coth. <span id="chapter33_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6 </sup></strong>Then they departed from Suc′coth and camped at E′tham, which is on the edge of the wilderness. <span id="chapter33_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7 </sup></strong>Next they departed from E′tham and turned back toward Pi·ha·hi′roth, which is in view of Ba′al-ze′phon, and they camped before Mig′dol. <span id="chapter33_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8 </sup></strong>After that they departed from Pi·ha·hi′roth and passed through the midst of the sea to the wilderness and kept marching a three-day journey in the wilderness of E′tham and camped at Ma′rah.</p>
<p id="p375" class="p375 sb"><span id="chapter33_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9 </sup></strong>Then they departed from Ma′rah and came to E′lim. Now in E′lim there were 12 springs of water and 70 palm trees, so they camped there. <span id="chapter33_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10 </sup></strong>Next they departed from E′lim and camped by the Red Sea. <span id="chapter33_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11 </sup></strong>After that they departed from the Red Sea and camped in the wilderness of Sin. <span id="chapter33_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12 </sup></strong>Then they departed from the wilderness of Sin and camped at Doph′kah. <span id="chapter33_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13 </sup></strong>Later they departed from Doph′kah and camped at A′lush. <span id="chapter33_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14 </sup></strong>They next departed from A′lush and camped at Reph′i·dim, where there was no water for the people to drink. <span id="chapter33_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15 </sup></strong>After that they departed from Reph′i·dim and camped in the wilderness of Si′nai.</p>
<p id="p376" class="p376 sb"><span id="chapter33_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16 </sup></strong>They departed from the wilderness of Si′nai and camped at Kib′roth-hat·ta′a·vah. <span id="chapter33_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17 </sup></strong>Then they departed from Kib′roth-hat·ta′a·vah and camped at Ha·ze′roth. <span id="chapter33_verse18"></span><strong><sup>18 </sup></strong>After that they departed from Ha·ze′roth and camped at Rith′mah. <span id="chapter33_verse19"></span><strong><sup>19 </sup></strong>Next they departed from Rith′mah and camped at Rim′mon-pe′rez. <span id="chapter33_verse20"></span><strong><sup>20 </sup></strong>Then they departed from Rim′mon-pe′rez and camped at Lib′nah. <span id="chapter33_verse21"></span><strong><sup>21 </sup></strong>They departed from Lib′nah and camped at Ris′sah. <span id="chapter33_verse22"></span><strong><sup>22 </sup></strong>Next they departed from Ris′sah and camped at Ke·he·la′thah. <span id="page268"></span><span id="chapter33_verse23"></span><strong><sup>23 </sup></strong>Then they departed from Ke·he·la′thah and camped at Mount She′pher.</p>
<p id="p377" class="p377 sb"><span id="chapter33_verse24"></span><strong><sup>24 </sup></strong>After that they departed from Mount She′pher and camped at Har·a′dah. <span id="chapter33_verse25"></span><strong><sup>25 </sup></strong>Then they departed from Har·a′dah and camped at Mak·he′loth. <span id="chapter33_verse26"></span><strong><sup>26 </sup></strong>Next they departed from Mak·he′loth and camped at Ta′hath. <span id="chapter33_verse27"></span><strong><sup>27 </sup></strong>After that they departed from Ta′hath and camped at Te′rah. <span id="chapter33_verse28"></span><strong><sup>28 </sup></strong>Then they departed from Te′rah and camped at Mith′kah. <span id="chapter33_verse29"></span><strong><sup>29 </sup></strong>Later they departed from Mith′kah and camped at Hash·mo′nah. <span id="chapter33_verse30"></span><strong><sup>30 </sup></strong>Next they departed from Hash·mo′nah and camped at Mo·se′roth. <span id="chapter33_verse31"></span><strong><sup>31 </sup></strong>Then they departed from Mo·se′roth and camped at Ben′e-ja′a·kan. <span id="chapter33_verse32"></span><strong><sup>32 </sup></strong>And they departed from Ben′e-ja′a·kan and camped at Hor-hag·gid′gad. <span id="chapter33_verse33"></span><strong><sup>33 </sup></strong>Next they departed from Hor-hag·gid′gad and camped at Jot′ba·thah. <span id="chapter33_verse34"></span><strong><sup>34 </sup></strong>Later they departed from Jot′ba·thah and camped at A·bro′nah. <span id="chapter33_verse35"></span><strong><sup>35 </sup></strong>Then they departed from A·bro′nah and camped at E′zi·on-ge′ber. <span id="chapter33_verse36"></span><strong><sup>36 </sup></strong>After that they departed from E′zi·on-ge′ber and camped in the wilderness of Zin, that is, Ka′desh.</p>
<p id="p378" class="p378 sb"><span id="chapter33_verse37"></span><strong><sup>37 </sup></strong>Later they departed from Ka′desh and camped at Mount Hor, on the frontier of the land of E′dom. <span id="chapter33_verse38"></span><strong><sup>38 </sup></strong>And Aaron the priest went up into Mount Hor at the order of Jehovah and died there in the 40th year after the Israelites left the land of Egypt, in the fifth month, on the first of the month. <span id="chapter33_verse39"></span><strong><sup>39 </sup></strong>Aaron was 123 years old at his death on Mount Hor.</p>
<p id="p379" class="p379 sb"><span id="chapter33_verse40"></span><strong><sup>40 </sup></strong>Now the king of A′rad, the Ca′naan·ite who was dwelling in the Neg′eb in the land of Ca′naan, heard about the coming of the Israelites.</p>
<p id="p380" class="p380 sb"><span id="chapter33_verse41"></span><strong><sup>41 </sup></strong>In time they departed from Mount Hor and camped at Zal·mo′nah. <span id="chapter33_verse42"></span><strong><sup>42 </sup></strong>After that they departed from Zal·mo′nah and camped at Pu′non. <span id="chapter33_verse43"></span><strong><sup>43 </sup></strong>Next they departed from Pu′non and camped at O′both. <span id="chapter33_verse44"></span><strong><sup>44 </sup></strong>Then they departed from O′both and camped at I′ye-ab′a·rim, on the border of Mo′ab. <span id="chapter33_verse45"></span><strong><sup>45 </sup></strong>Later they departed from I′yim and camped at Di′bon-gad. <span id="chapter33_verse46"></span><strong><sup>46 </sup></strong>After that they departed from Di′bon-gad and camped at Al′mon-dib·la·tha′im. <span id="chapter33_verse47"></span><strong><sup>47 </sup></strong>Then they departed from Al′mon-dib·la·tha′im and camped in the mountains of Ab′a·rim before Ne′bo. <span id="chapter33_verse48"></span><strong><sup>48 </sup></strong>Finally they departed from the mountains of Ab′a·rim and camped on the desert plains of Mo′ab by the Jordan at Jer′i·cho. <span id="chapter33_verse49"></span><strong><sup>49 </sup></strong>They continued camping along the Jordan, from Beth-jesh′i·moth as far as A′bel-shit′tim, on the desert plains of Mo′ab.</p>
<p id="p381" class="p381 sb"><span id="pos166785"></span><span id="chapter33_verse50"></span><strong><sup>50 </sup></strong>Jehovah spoke to Moses on the desert plains of Mo′ab by the Jordan at Jer′i·cho, saying: <span id="chapter33_verse51"></span><strong><sup>51 </sup></strong>“Speak to the Israelites and tell them, ‘You are crossing the Jordan into the land of Ca′naan. <span id="chapter33_verse52"></span><strong><sup>52 </sup></strong>You must drive away all the inhabitants of the land from before you and destroy all their carvings of stone and all their metal statues,<span id="footnotesource233"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote233">*</a> and you should demolish all their sacred high places. <span id="chapter33_verse53"></span><strong><sup>53 </sup></strong>And you will take possession of the land and dwell in it, because I will certainly give you the land as a possession. <span id="chapter33_verse54"></span><strong><sup>54 </sup></strong>You must apportion the land by lot as a possession among your families. To the larger group you should increase his inheritance, and to the smaller group you should reduce his inheritance. Everyone’s inheritance will be where his lot falls. You will receive your property as an inheritance by the tribes of your fathers.</p>
<p id="p382" class="p382 sb"><span id="page269"></span><span id="chapter33_verse55"></span><strong><sup>55 </sup></strong>“‘If, though, you do not drive the inhabitants of the land away from before you, those whom you allow to remain will be as irritants in your eyes and thorns in your sides, and they will harass you in the land where you will dwell. <span id="chapter33_verse56"></span><strong><sup>56 </sup></strong>And I will do to you what I intended to do to them.’”</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote231"><p><a href="032_NU-1-split33.xhtml#footnotesource231">^ <span class="footnoteref">Num. 33:1</span></a> Lit., “according to their armies.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote232"><p><a href="032_NU-1-split33.xhtml#footnotesource232">^ <span class="footnoteref">Num. 33:3</span></a> Lit., “with uplifted hand.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote233"><p><a href="032_NU-1-split33.xhtml#footnotesource233">^ <span class="footnoteref">Num. 33:52</span></a> Or “molten statues.”</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
