<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>Numbers 13</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/docclass1.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
<p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">Numbers</a>  <a href="biblechapternav4.xhtml">13</a> : <a href="bibleversenav4_13.xhtml">1 - 33</a></p>
<p id="p139" class="p139 sb"><span id="pos64485"></span><span id="chapter13"></span><span id="chapter13_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>13 </strong></span>Jehovah now spoke to Moses, saying: <span id="chapter13_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2 </sup></strong>“Send out men to spy<span id="footnotesource88"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote88">*</a> out the land of Ca′naan, which I am giving to the Israelites. You are to send out one man from each ancestral tribe, each one a chieftain among them.”</p>
<p id="p140" class="p140 sb"><span id="chapter13_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3 </sup></strong>So Moses sent them out from the wilderness of Pa′ran at the order of Jehovah. All the men were heads of the Israelites. <span id="chapter13_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4 </sup></strong>These are their names: of the tribe of Reu′ben, Sham·mu′a the son of Zac′cur; <span id="chapter13_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5 </sup></strong>of the tribe of Sim′e·on, Sha′phat the son of Ho′ri; <span id="chapter13_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6 </sup></strong>of the tribe of Judah, Ca′leb the son of Je·phun′neh; <span id="chapter13_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7 </sup></strong>of the tribe of Is′sa·char, I′gal the son of Joseph; <span id="chapter13_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8 </sup></strong>of the tribe of E′phra·im, Ho·she′a the son of Nun; <span id="chapter13_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9 </sup></strong>of the tribe of Benjamin, Pal′ti the son of Ra′phu; <span id="chapter13_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10 </sup></strong>of the tribe of Zeb′u·lun, Gad′di·el the son of So′di; <span id="chapter13_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11 </sup></strong>of the tribe of Joseph, for the tribe of Ma·nas′seh, Gad′di the son of Su′si; <span id="chapter13_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12 </sup></strong>of the tribe of Dan, Am′mi·el the son of Ge·mal′li; <span id="chapter13_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13 </sup></strong>of the tribe of Ash′er, Se′thur the son of Mi′cha·el; <span id="chapter13_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14 </sup></strong>of the tribe of Naph′ta·li, Nah′bi the son of Voph′si; <span id="chapter13_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15 </sup></strong>of the tribe of Gad, Geu′el the son of Ma′chi. <span id="chapter13_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16 </sup></strong>These are the names of the men whom Moses sent to spy out the land. And Moses gave the name Joshua<span id="footnotesource89"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote89">*</a> to Ho·she′a the son of Nun.</p>
<p id="p141" class="p141 sb"><span id="chapter13_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17 </sup></strong>When Moses was sending them to spy out the land of Ca′naan, he said to them: “Go up there into the Neg′eb, and then go up into the mountainous region. <span id="chapter13_verse18"></span><strong><sup>18 </sup></strong>You must see what kind of land it is and whether the people who are dwelling in it are strong or weak, few or many, <span id="page236"></span><span id="chapter13_verse19"></span><strong><sup>19 </sup></strong>and whether the land is good or bad and whether the cities they are dwelling in are encampments or fortifications. <span id="chapter13_verse20"></span><strong><sup>20 </sup></strong>And find out whether the land is rich<span id="footnotesource90"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote90">*</a> or poor<span id="footnotesource91"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote91">*</a> and whether there are trees in it or not. You must be courageous and take some of the fruitage of the land.” Now it was the season of the first ripe grapes.</p>
<p id="p142" class="p142 sb"><span id="chapter13_verse21"></span><strong><sup>21 </sup></strong>So they went up and spied out the land from the wilderness of Zin to Re′hob to Le′bo-ha′math.<span id="footnotesource92"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote92">*</a> <span id="chapter13_verse22"></span><strong><sup>22 </sup></strong>When they went up into the Neg′eb, they came to Heb′ron, where A·hi′man, She′shai, and Tal′mai, the An′a·kim, were living. Incidentally, Heb′ron had been built seven years before Zo′an of Egypt. <span id="chapter13_verse23"></span><strong><sup>23 </sup></strong>When they came to the Valley<span id="footnotesource93"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote93">*</a> of Esh′col, there they cut down a branch with one cluster of grapes, which two of the men had to carry on a bar, as well as some of the pomegranates and figs. <span id="chapter13_verse24"></span><strong><sup>24 </sup></strong>They called that place the Valley<span id="footnotesource94"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote94">*</a> of Esh′col<span id="footnotesource95"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote95">*</a> because of the cluster that the Israelites cut down from there.</p>
<p id="p143" class="p143 sb"><span id="pos66966"></span><span id="chapter13_verse25"></span><strong><sup>25 </sup></strong>At the end of 40 days, they returned from spying out the land. <span id="chapter13_verse26"></span><strong><sup>26 </sup></strong>So they came back to Moses and Aaron and all the assembly of the Israelites in the wilderness of Pa′ran, at Ka′desh. They brought back a report to all the assembly and showed them the fruitage of the land. <span id="chapter13_verse27"></span><strong><sup>27 </sup></strong>This is what they reported to Moses: “We entered the land into which you sent us, and it is indeed flowing with milk and honey, and this is its fruitage. <span id="chapter13_verse28"></span><strong><sup>28 </sup></strong>Nevertheless, the people who dwell in the land are strong, and the fortified cities are very great. We also saw the An′a·kim there. <span id="chapter13_verse29"></span><strong><sup>29 </sup></strong>The A·mal′ek·ites are dwelling in the land of the Neg′eb, and the Hit′tites, the Jeb′u·sites, and the Am′or·ites are dwelling in the mountainous region, and the Ca′naan·ites are dwelling by the sea and along the Jordan.”</p>
<p id="p144" class="p144 sb"><span id="chapter13_verse30"></span><strong><sup>30 </sup></strong>Then Ca′leb tried to calm the people as they stood before Moses by saying: “Let us go up immediately, and we are sure to take possession of it, because we can surely conquer it.” <span id="chapter13_verse31"></span><strong><sup>31 </sup></strong>But the men who went up with him said: “We are not able to go up against the people, because they are stronger than we are.” <span id="chapter13_verse32"></span><strong><sup>32 </sup></strong>And they kept on giving the Israelites a bad report about the land that they had spied out, saying: “The land that we passed through to spy out is a land that devours its inhabitants, and all the people whom we saw in it are men of extraordinary size. <span id="chapter13_verse33"></span><strong><sup>33 </sup></strong>And there we saw the Neph′i·lim, the sons of A′nak, who are from<span id="footnotesource96"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote96">*</a> the Neph′i·lim, and in comparison we seemed like grasshoppers, both to us and to them.”</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote88"><p><a href="032_NU-1-split13.xhtml#footnotesource88">^ <span class="footnoteref">Num. 13:2</span></a> Or “to scout.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote89"><p><a href="032_NU-1-split13.xhtml#footnotesource89">^ <span class="footnoteref">Num. 13:16</span></a> Or “Jehoshua,” meaning “Jehovah Is Salvation.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote90"><p><a href="032_NU-1-split13.xhtml#footnotesource90">^ <span class="footnoteref">Num. 13:20</span></a> Lit., “fat.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote91"><p><a href="032_NU-1-split13.xhtml#footnotesource91">^ <span class="footnoteref">Num. 13:20</span></a> Lit., “lean.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote92"><p><a href="032_NU-1-split13.xhtml#footnotesource92">^ <span class="footnoteref">Num. 13:21</span></a> Or “the entrance of Hamath.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote93"><p><a href="032_NU-1-split13.xhtml#footnotesource93">^ <span class="footnoteref">Num. 13:23</span></a> Or “Wadi.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote94"><p><a href="032_NU-1-split13.xhtml#footnotesource94">^ <span class="footnoteref">Num. 13:24</span></a> Or “Wadi.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote95"><p><a href="032_NU-1-split13.xhtml#footnotesource95">^ <span class="footnoteref">Num. 13:24</span></a> Meaning “Cluster of Grapes.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote96"><p><a href="032_NU-1-split13.xhtml#footnotesource96">^ <span class="footnoteref">Num. 13:33</span></a> Or “descendants of.”</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
