<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>Numbers 26</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/docclass1.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
<p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">Numbers</a>  <a href="biblechapternav4.xhtml">26</a> : <a href="bibleversenav4_26.xhtml">1 - 65</a></p>
<p id="p305" class="p305 sb"><span id="pos125963"></span><span id="chapter26"></span><span id="chapter26_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>26 </strong></span>After the scourge, Jehovah said to Moses and El·e·a′zar the son of Aaron the priest: <span id="chapter26_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2 </sup></strong>“Take a census of the whole assembly of the Israelites from 20 years of age and up, by their paternal houses, counting all those who can serve in the army in Israel.” <span id="chapter26_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3 </sup></strong>So Moses and El·e·a′zar the priest spoke with them in the desert plains of Mo′ab by the Jordan at Jer′i·cho, saying: <span id="chapter26_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4 </sup></strong>“Take a census of them from the age of 20 years <span id="page256"></span>and up, just as Jehovah commanded Moses.”</p>
<p id="p306" class="p306 sb">Now the sons of Israel who went out of the land of Egypt were: <span id="chapter26_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5 </sup></strong>Reu′ben, Israel’s firstborn; Reu′ben’s sons were: of Ha′noch, the family of the Ha′noch·ites; of Pal′lu, the family of the Pal′lu·ites; <span id="chapter26_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6 </sup></strong>of Hez′ron, the family of the Hez′ron·ites; of Car′mi, the family of the Car′mites. <span id="chapter26_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7 </sup></strong>These were the families of the Reu′ben·ites, and their registered ones amounted to 43,730.</p>
<p id="p307" class="p307 sb"><span id="chapter26_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8 </sup></strong>The son of Pal′lu was E·li′ab. <span id="chapter26_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9 </sup></strong>And the sons of E·li′ab were Nem′u·el, Da′than, and A·bi′ram. This Da′than and A·bi′ram were chosen ones of the assembly who fought against Moses and Aaron along with Kor′ah’s group when they fought against Jehovah.</p>
<p id="p308" class="p308 sb"><span id="chapter26_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10 </sup></strong>Then the earth opened<span id="footnotesource188"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote188">*</a> and swallowed them up. As for Kor′ah, he died with his supporters when the fire consumed 250 men. And they became a warning example. <span id="chapter26_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11 </sup></strong>However, the sons of Kor′ah did not die.</p>
<p id="p309" class="p309 sb"><span id="chapter26_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12 </sup></strong>The sons of Sim′e·on by their families were: of Nem′u·el, the family of the Nem′u·el·ites; of Ja′min, the family of the Ja′min·ites; of Ja′chin, the family of the Ja′chin·ites; <span id="chapter26_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13 </sup></strong>of Ze′rah, the family of the Ze′rah·ites; of Sha′ul, the family of the Sha·u′lites. <span id="chapter26_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14 </sup></strong>These were the families of the Sim′e·on·ites: 22,200.</p>
<p id="p310" class="p310 sb"><span id="chapter26_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15 </sup></strong>The sons of Gad by their families were: of Ze′phon, the family of the Ze′phon·ites; of Hag′gi, the family of the Hag′gites; of Shu′ni, the family of the Shu′nites; <span id="chapter26_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16 </sup></strong>of Oz′ni, the family of the Oz′nites; of E′ri, the family of the E′rites; <span id="chapter26_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17 </sup></strong>of Ar′od, the family of the Ar′od·ites; of A·re′li, the family of the A·re′lites. <span id="chapter26_verse18"></span><strong><sup>18 </sup></strong>These were the families of the sons of Gad, and their registered ones were 40,500.</p>
<p id="p311" class="p311 sb"><span id="chapter26_verse19"></span><strong><sup>19 </sup></strong>The sons of Judah were Er and O′nan. However, Er and O′nan died in the land of Ca′naan. <span id="chapter26_verse20"></span><strong><sup>20 </sup></strong>And the sons of Judah by their families were: of She′lah, the family of the She·la′nites; of Pe′rez, the family of the Per′e·zites; of Ze′rah, the family of the Ze′rah·ites. <span id="chapter26_verse21"></span><strong><sup>21 </sup></strong>And the sons of Pe′rez were: of Hez′ron, the family of the Hez′ron·ites; of Ha′mul, the family of the Ha·mu′lites. <span id="chapter26_verse22"></span><strong><sup>22 </sup></strong>These were the families of Judah, and their registered ones were 76,500.</p>
<p id="p312" class="p312 sb"><span id="chapter26_verse23"></span><strong><sup>23 </sup></strong>The sons of Is′sa·char by their families were: of To′la, the family of the To′la·ites; of Pu′vah, the family of the Pu′nites; <span id="chapter26_verse24"></span><strong><sup>24 </sup></strong>of Ja′shub, the family of the Jash′u·bites; of Shim′ron, the family of the Shim′ron·ites. <span id="chapter26_verse25"></span><strong><sup>25 </sup></strong>These were the families of Is′sa·char, and their registered ones were 64,300.</p>
<p id="p313" class="p313 sb"><span id="chapter26_verse26"></span><strong><sup>26 </sup></strong>The sons of Zeb′u·lun by their families were: of Se′red, the family of the Ser′e·dites; of E′lon, the family of the E′lon·ites; of Jah′le·el, the family of the Jah′le·el·ites. <span id="chapter26_verse27"></span><strong><sup>27 </sup></strong>These were the families of the Ze·bu′lu·nites, and their registered ones were 60,500.</p>
<p id="p314" class="p314 sb"><span id="chapter26_verse28"></span><strong><sup>28 </sup></strong>The sons of Joseph by their families were: Ma·nas′seh and E′phra·im. <span id="chapter26_verse29"></span><strong><sup>29 </sup></strong>The sons of Ma·nas′seh were: of Ma′chir, the family of the Ma′chir·ites; and Ma′chir became father to Gil′e·ad; of Gil′e·ad, the family of the Gil′e·ad·ites. <span id="chapter26_verse30"></span><strong><sup>30 </sup></strong>These were the sons of Gil′e·ad: of Ie′zer, the family of the Ie′zer·ites; of He′lek, the family of the He′lek·ites; <span id="chapter26_verse31"></span><strong><sup>31 </sup></strong>of As′ri·el, the family of the As′ri·el·ites; of She′chem, the family of the She′chem·ites; <span id="chapter26_verse32"></span><strong><sup>32 </sup></strong>of She·mi′da, the family of the She·mi′da·ites; of He′pher, the family of the <span id="page257"></span>He′pher·ites. <span id="chapter26_verse33"></span><strong><sup>33 </sup></strong>Now Ze·lo′phe·had the son of He′pher had no sons, only daughters, and the names of the daughters of Ze·lo′phe·had were Mah′lah, Noah, Hog′lah, Mil′cah, and Tir′zah. <span id="chapter26_verse34"></span><strong><sup>34 </sup></strong>These were the families of Ma·nas′seh, and their registered ones were 52,700.</p>
<p id="p315" class="p315 sb"><span id="chapter26_verse35"></span><strong><sup>35 </sup></strong>These were the sons of E′phra·im by their families: of Shu′the·lah, the family of the Shu′thel·a′hites; of Be′cher, the family of the Be′cher·ites; of Ta′han, the family of the Ta′han·ites. <span id="chapter26_verse36"></span><strong><sup>36 </sup></strong>And these were the sons of Shu′the·lah: of E′ran, the family of the E′ran·ites. <span id="chapter26_verse37"></span><strong><sup>37 </sup></strong>These were the families of the sons of E′phra·im, and their registered ones were 32,500. These were the sons of Joseph by their families.</p>
<p id="p316" class="p316 sb"><span id="chapter26_verse38"></span><strong><sup>38 </sup></strong>The sons of Benjamin by their families were: of Be′la, the family of the Be′la·ites; of Ash′bel, the family of the Ash′bel·ites; of A·hi′ram, the family of the A·hi′ram·ites; <span id="chapter26_verse39"></span><strong><sup>39 </sup></strong>of She·phu′pham, the family of the Shu′pham·ites; of Hu′pham, the family of the Hu′pham·ites. <span id="chapter26_verse40"></span><strong><sup>40 </sup></strong>The sons of Be′la were Ard and Na′a·man: of Ard, the family of the Ard′ites; of Na′a·man, the family of the Na′a·mites. <span id="chapter26_verse41"></span><strong><sup>41 </sup></strong>These were the sons of Benjamin by their families, and their registered ones were 45,600.</p>
<p id="p317" class="p317 sb"><span id="chapter26_verse42"></span><strong><sup>42 </sup></strong>These were the sons of Dan by their families: of Shu′ham, the family of the Shu′ham·ites. These were the families of Dan by their families. <span id="chapter26_verse43"></span><strong><sup>43 </sup></strong>All the families of the Shu′ham·ites, of their registered ones, were 64,400.</p>
<p id="p318" class="p318 sb"><span id="chapter26_verse44"></span><strong><sup>44 </sup></strong>The sons of Ash′er by their families were: of Im′nah, the family of the Im′nites; of Ish′vi, the family of the Ish′vites; of Be·ri′ah, the family of the Be·ri′ites; <span id="chapter26_verse45"></span><strong><sup>45 </sup></strong>of the sons of Be·ri′ah: of He′ber, the family of the He′ber·ites; of Mal′chi·el, the family of the Mal′chi·el·ites. <span id="chapter26_verse46"></span><strong><sup>46 </sup></strong>The name of Ash′er’s daughter was Se′rah. <span id="chapter26_verse47"></span><strong><sup>47 </sup></strong>These were the families of the sons of Ash′er, and their registered ones were 53,400.</p>
<p id="p319" class="p319 sb"><span id="chapter26_verse48"></span><strong><sup>48 </sup></strong>The sons of Naph′ta·li by their families were: of Jah′ze·el, the family of the Jah′ze·el·ites; of Gu′ni, the family of the Gu′nites; <span id="chapter26_verse49"></span><strong><sup>49 </sup></strong>of Je′zer, the family of the Je′zer·ites; of Shil′lem, the family of the Shil′lem·ites. <span id="chapter26_verse50"></span><strong><sup>50 </sup></strong>These were the families of Naph′ta·li by their families, and their registered ones were 45,400.</p>
<p id="p320" class="p320 sb"><span id="chapter26_verse51"></span><strong><sup>51 </sup></strong>This is the total of those registered of the Israelites: 601,730.</p>
<p id="p321" class="p321 sb"><span id="chapter26_verse52"></span><strong><sup>52 </sup></strong>After that Jehovah said to Moses: <span id="chapter26_verse53"></span><strong><sup>53 </sup></strong>“Among these the land should be divided as an inheritance according to the list of the names.<span id="footnotesource189"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote189">*</a> <span id="chapter26_verse54"></span><strong><sup>54 </sup></strong>For the larger groups, you should increase the inheritance, and for the smaller groups, you should reduce the inheritance. Each group’s inheritance should be given in proportion to the number of those registered. <span id="chapter26_verse55"></span><strong><sup>55 </sup></strong>However, the land should be apportioned by lot. They should receive their inheritance according to the names of the tribes of their fathers. <span id="chapter26_verse56"></span><strong><sup>56 </sup></strong>Each inheritance will be determined by lot and apportioned among the larger and the smaller groups.”</p>
<p id="p322" class="p322 sb"><span id="chapter26_verse57"></span><strong><sup>57 </sup></strong>Now these were the registered ones of the Levites by their families: of Ger′shon, the family of the Ger′shon·ites; of Ko′hath, the family of the Ko′hath·ites; of Me·rar′i, the family of the Me·rar′ites. <span id="chapter26_verse58"></span><strong><sup>58 </sup></strong>These were the families of the Levites: the family of the Lib′nites, the family of the Heb′ron·ites, the <span id="page258"></span>family of the Mah′lites, the family of the Mu′shites, the family of the Kor′ah·ites.</p>
<p id="p323" class="p323 sb">Ko′hath became father to Am′ram. <span id="chapter26_verse59"></span><strong><sup>59 </sup></strong>And the name of Am′ram’s wife was Joch′e·bed, Le′vi’s daughter, whom his wife bore to Le′vi in Egypt. And to Am′ram she bore Aaron and Moses and their sister Mir′i·am. <span id="chapter26_verse60"></span><strong><sup>60 </sup></strong>Then to Aaron there were born Na′dab, A·bi′hu, El·e·a′zar, and Ith′a·mar. <span id="chapter26_verse61"></span><strong><sup>61 </sup></strong>But Na′dab and A·bi′hu died for presenting unauthorized fire before Jehovah.</p>
<p id="p324" class="p324 sb"><span id="chapter26_verse62"></span><strong><sup>62 </sup></strong>The total of those registered was 23,000, all males from a month old and up. For they were not registered among the Israelites, because no inheritance was to be given to them among the Israelites.</p>
<p id="p325" class="p325 sb"><span id="chapter26_verse63"></span><strong><sup>63 </sup></strong>These were the ones registered by Moses and El·e·a′zar the priest when they registered the Israelites in the desert plains of Mo′ab by the Jordan at Jer′i·cho. <span id="chapter26_verse64"></span><strong><sup>64 </sup></strong>But among them there was no one who had been registered by Moses and Aaron the priest in the census of the Israelites taken in the wilderness of Si′nai. <span id="chapter26_verse65"></span><strong><sup>65 </sup></strong>For Jehovah had said concerning them: “They will die without fail in the wilderness.” So there was not a man left of them except Ca′leb the son of Je·phun′neh and Joshua the son of Nun.</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote188"><p><a href="032_NU-1-split26.xhtml#footnotesource188">^ <span class="footnoteref">Num. 26:10</span></a> Lit., “opened its mouth.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote189"><p><a href="032_NU-1-split26.xhtml#footnotesource189">^ <span class="footnoteref">Num. 26:53</span></a> Or “proportionate to the number of names listed.”</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
