<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>Joshua 12</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/docclass1.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
<p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">Joshua</a>  <a href="biblechapternav6.xhtml">12</a> : <a href="bibleversenav6_12.xhtml">1 - 24</a></p>
<p id="p94" class="p94 sb"><span id="pos47556"></span><span id="chapter12"></span><span id="chapter12_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>12 </strong></span>Now these are the kings of the land whom the Israelites defeated, whose land they took possession of on the east side of the Jordan, from the Ar′non Valley<span id="footnotesource64"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote64">*</a> up to Mount Her′mon and all the Ar′a·bah toward the east: <span id="chapter12_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2 </sup></strong>King Si′hon of the Am′or·ites, who lived in Hesh′bon and ruled from A·ro′er, which was on the rim of the Ar′non Valley,<span id="footnotesource65"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote65">*</a> and from the middle of the valley, and half of Gil′e·ad as far as the Valley<span id="footnotesource66"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote66">*</a> of Jab′bok, the boundary of the Am′mon·ites. <span id="chapter12_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3 </sup></strong>He also ruled over the Ar′a·bah as far as the Sea of Chin′ne·reth<span id="footnotesource67"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote67">*</a> toward the east and as far as the Sea of the Ar′a·bah, the Salt Sea,<span id="footnotesource68"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote68">*</a> to the east in the direction of Beth-jesh′i·moth, and toward the south under the slopes of Pis′gah.</p>
<p id="p95" class="p95 sb"><span id="chapter12_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4 </sup></strong>Also the territory of King Og of Ba′shan, who was one of the last of the Reph′a·im and who lived in Ash′ta·roth and Ed′re·i <span id="chapter12_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5 </sup></strong>and ruled in Mount Her′mon, in Sal′e·cah, and in all Ba′shan, as far as the boundary of the Gesh′ur·ites and the Ma·ac′a·thites, and half of Gil′e·ad, to the territory of King Si′hon of Hesh′bon.</p>
<p id="p96" class="p96 sb"><span id="chapter12_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6 </sup></strong>Moses the servant of Jehovah and the Israelites defeated them, after which Moses the servant of Jehovah gave their land as a possession to the Reu′ben·ites, the Gad′ites, and the half tribe of Ma·nas′seh.</p>
<p id="p97" class="p97 sb"><span id="pos48817"></span><span id="chapter12_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7 </sup></strong>These are the kings of the land whom Joshua and the Israelites defeated on the west side of the Jordan, from Ba′al-gad in the Valley of Leb′a·non and as far as Mount Ha′lak, which goes up to Se′ir, after which Joshua gave their land to the tribes <span id="page341"></span>of Israel as a possession by their shares, <span id="chapter12_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8 </sup></strong>in the mountainous region, in the She·phe′lah, in the Ar′a·bah, on the slopes, in the wilderness, and in the Neg′eb—the land of the Hit′tites, the Am′or·ites, the Ca′naan·ites, the Per′iz·zites, the Hi′vites, and the Jeb′u·sites:</p>
<p id="p98" class="p98 sl"><span id="chapter12_verse9"></span>  <strong><sup>9 </sup></strong>The king of Jer′i·cho, one; the king of A′i, which was beside Beth′el, one;</p>
<p class="p98 sl"><span id="chapter12_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10 </sup></strong>the king of Jerusalem, one; the king of Heb′ron, one;</p>
<p class="p98 sl"><span id="chapter12_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11 </sup></strong>the king of Jar′muth, one; the king of La′chish, one;</p>
<p class="p98 sl"><span id="chapter12_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12 </sup></strong>the king of Eg′lon, one; the king of Ge′zer, one;</p>
<p class="p98 sl"><span id="chapter12_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13 </sup></strong>the king of De′bir, one; the king of Ge′der, one;</p>
<p class="p98 sl"><span id="chapter12_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14 </sup></strong>the king of Hor′mah, one; the king of A′rad, one;</p>
<p class="p98 sl"><span id="chapter12_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15 </sup></strong>the king of Lib′nah, one; the king of A·dul′lam, one;</p>
<p class="p98 sl"><span id="chapter12_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16 </sup></strong>the king of Mak·ke′dah, one; the king of Beth′el, one;</p>
<p class="p98 sl"><span id="chapter12_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17 </sup></strong>the king of Tap′pu·ah, one; the king of He′pher, one;</p>
<p class="p98 sl"><span id="chapter12_verse18"></span><strong><sup>18 </sup></strong>the king of A′phek, one; the king of Las·shar′on, one;</p>
<p class="p98 sl"><span id="chapter12_verse19"></span><strong><sup>19 </sup></strong>the king of Ma′don, one; the king of Ha′zor, one;</p>
<p class="p98 sl"><span id="chapter12_verse20"></span><strong><sup>20 </sup></strong>the king of Shim′ron-me′ron, one; the king of Ach′shaph, one;</p>
<p class="p98 sl"><span id="chapter12_verse21"></span><strong><sup>21 </sup></strong>the king of Ta′a·nach, one; the king of Me·gid′do, one;</p>
<p class="p98 sl"><span id="chapter12_verse22"></span><strong><sup>22 </sup></strong>the king of Ke′desh, one; the king of Jok′ne·am in Car′mel, one;</p>
<p class="p98 sl"><span id="chapter12_verse23"></span><strong><sup>23 </sup></strong>the king of Dor on the slopes of Dor, one; the king of Goi′im in Gil′gal, one;</p>
<p class="p98 sl"><span id="chapter12_verse24"></span><strong><sup>24 </sup></strong>the king of Tir′zah, one; a total of 31 kings.</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote64"><p><a href="036_JOS-.1-split12.xhtml#footnotesource64">^ <span class="footnoteref">Josh. 12:1</span></a> Or “Wadi Arnon.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote65"><p><a href="036_JOS-.1-split12.xhtml#footnotesource65">^ <span class="footnoteref">Josh. 12:2</span></a> Or “Wadi Arnon.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote66"><p><a href="036_JOS-.1-split12.xhtml#footnotesource66">^ <span class="footnoteref">Josh. 12:2</span></a> Or “Wadi.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote67"><p><a href="036_JOS-.1-split12.xhtml#footnotesource67">^ <span class="footnoteref">Josh. 12:3</span></a> That is, the lake of Gennesaret, or the Sea of Galilee.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote68"><p><a href="036_JOS-.1-split12.xhtml#footnotesource68">^ <span class="footnoteref">Josh. 12:3</span></a> That is, the Dead Sea.</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
