<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>Joshua 17</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/docclass1.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
<p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">Joshua</a>  <a href="biblechapternav6.xhtml">17</a> : <a href="bibleversenav6_17.xhtml">1 - 18</a></p>
<p id="p131" class="p131 sb"><span id="pos65576"></span><span id="chapter17"></span><span id="chapter17_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>17 </strong></span>Then the lot fell for the tribe of Ma·nas′seh, because he was Joseph’s firstborn. Since Ma′chir, the firstborn of Ma·nas′seh and the father of Gil′e·ad, was a man of war, he received Gil′e·ad and Ba′shan. <span id="chapter17_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2 </sup></strong>And the lot fell for the rest of the descendants of Ma·nas′seh according to their families, for the sons of Abi-e′zer, the sons of He′lek, the sons of As′ri·el, the sons of She′chem, the sons of He′pher, and the sons of She·mi′da. These were the descendants of Ma·nas′seh the son of Joseph, the males according to their families. <span id="chapter17_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3 </sup></strong>But Ze·lo′phe·had the son of He′pher, the son of Gil′e·ad, the son of Ma′chir, the son of Ma·nas′seh, did not have sons, only daughters, and these were the names of his daughters: Mah′lah, Noah, Hog′lah, Mil′cah, and Tir′zah. <span id="chapter17_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4 </sup></strong>So they presented themselves before El·e·a′zar the priest, Joshua the son of Nun, and the chieftains, saying: “It was Jehovah who commanded Moses to give us an inheritance among our brothers.” So at the order of Jehovah, he gave them an inheritance among the brothers of their father.</p>
<p id="p132" class="p132 sb"><span id="chapter17_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5 </sup></strong>There were also ten allotments that fell to Ma·nas′seh apart from the land of Gil′e·ad and Ba′shan, which were on the other side<span id="footnotesource105"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote105">*</a> of the Jordan, <span id="chapter17_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6 </sup></strong>for the daughters of Ma·nas′seh received an inheritance along with his sons, and the land of Gil′e·ad became the property of the rest of the descendants of Ma·nas′seh.</p>
<p id="p133" class="p133 sb"><span id="chapter17_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7 </sup></strong>And the boundary of Ma·nas′seh was from Ash′er to Mich·me′thath, which faces She′chem, and the boundary continued toward the south<span id="footnotesource106"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote106">*</a> to the land of the inhabitants of En-Tap′pu·ah. <span id="chapter17_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8 </sup></strong>The land of Tap′pu·ah became Ma·nas′seh’s, but Tap′pu·ah on Ma·nas′seh’s boundary belonged to the descendants of E′phra·im. <span id="chapter17_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9 </sup></strong>And the boundary went down to the Wadi of Ka′nah, southward to the wadi. There were cities <span id="page347"></span>of E′phra·im among the cities of Ma·nas′seh, and the boundary of Ma·nas′seh was on the north of the wadi, and it ended at the sea. <span id="chapter17_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10 </sup></strong>To the south it belonged to E′phra·im, and to the north it belonged to Ma·nas′seh, and the sea was his boundary, and on the north they<span id="footnotesource107"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote107">*</a> reached to Ash′er, and on the east, to Is′sa·char.</p>
<p id="p134" class="p134 sb"><span id="chapter17_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11 </sup></strong>In the territories of Is′sa·char and Ash′er, Ma·nas′seh was given Beth-she′an and its dependent<span id="footnotesource108"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote108">*</a> towns, Ib′le·am and its dependent towns, the inhabitants of Dor and its dependent towns, the inhabitants of En-dor and its dependent towns, the inhabitants of Ta′a·nach and its dependent towns, and the inhabitants of Me·gid′do and its dependent towns, three of the heights.</p>
<p id="p135" class="p135 sb"><span id="chapter17_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12 </sup></strong>But the descendants of Ma·nas′seh were not able to take possession of these cities; the Ca′naan·ites persisted in dwelling in this land. <span id="chapter17_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13 </sup></strong>When the Israelites grew strong, they subjected the Ca′naan·ites to forced labor, but they did not drive them out<span id="footnotesource109"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote109">*</a> entirely.</p>
<p id="p136" class="p136 sb"><span id="pos68373"></span><span id="chapter17_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14 </sup></strong>The descendants of Joseph said to Joshua: “Why have you given us<span id="footnotesource110"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote110">*</a> as an inheritance only one lot and one allotment? We are a numerous people, for Jehovah has blessed us until now.” <span id="chapter17_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15 </sup></strong>Joshua replied to them: “If you are such a numerous people, go up to the forest and clear out a place for yourself there in the land of the Per′iz·zites and the Reph′a·im, since the mountainous region of E′phra·im is too cramped for you.” <span id="chapter17_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16 </sup></strong>Then the descendants of Joseph said: “The mountainous region is not enough for us, and all the Ca′naan·ites who are dwelling in the land of the valley<span id="footnotesource111"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote111">*</a> have war chariots with iron scythes,<span id="footnotesource112"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote112">*</a> both those in Beth-she′an and its dependent<span id="footnotesource113"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote113">*</a> towns and those in the Valley<span id="footnotesource114"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote114">*</a> of Jez′re·el.” <span id="chapter17_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17 </sup></strong>So Joshua said this to the house of Joseph, to E′phra·im and Ma·nas′seh: “You are a numerous people, and you have great power. You will not receive only one lot, <span id="chapter17_verse18"></span><strong><sup>18 </sup></strong>but the mountainous region will also be yours. Although it is a forest, you will clear it, and it will be the extremity of your territory. For you will drive away the Ca′naan·ites, even though they are strong and have war chariots with iron scythes.”<span id="footnotesource115"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote115">*</a></p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote105"><p><a href="036_JOS-.1-split17.xhtml#footnotesource105">^ <span class="footnoteref">Josh. 17:5</span></a> That is, the east side.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote106"><p><a href="036_JOS-.1-split17.xhtml#footnotesource106">^ <span class="footnoteref">Josh. 17:7</span></a> Lit., “to the right.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote107"><p><a href="036_JOS-.1-split17.xhtml#footnotesource107">^ <span class="footnoteref">Josh. 17:10</span></a> That is, the people of Manasseh or Manasseh’s territory.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote108"><p><a href="036_JOS-.1-split17.xhtml#footnotesource108">^ <span class="footnoteref">Josh. 17:11</span></a> Or “surrounding.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote109"><p><a href="036_JOS-.1-split17.xhtml#footnotesource109">^ <span class="footnoteref">Josh. 17:13</span></a> Or “not dispossess them.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote110"><p><a href="036_JOS-.1-split17.xhtml#footnotesource110">^ <span class="footnoteref">Josh. 17:14</span></a> Lit., “me.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote111"><p><a href="036_JOS-.1-split17.xhtml#footnotesource111">^ <span class="footnoteref">Josh. 17:16</span></a> Or “low plain.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote112"><p><a href="036_JOS-.1-split17.xhtml#footnotesource112">^ <span class="footnoteref">Josh. 17:16</span></a> Lit., “chariots of iron.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote113"><p><a href="036_JOS-.1-split17.xhtml#footnotesource113">^ <span class="footnoteref">Josh. 17:16</span></a> Or “surrounding.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote114"><p><a href="036_JOS-.1-split17.xhtml#footnotesource114">^ <span class="footnoteref">Josh. 17:16</span></a> Or “Low Plain.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote115"><p><a href="036_JOS-.1-split17.xhtml#footnotesource115">^ <span class="footnoteref">Josh. 17:18</span></a> Lit., “chariots of iron.”</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
