<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>Joshua 18</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/docclass1.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
<p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">Joshua</a>  <a href="biblechapternav6.xhtml">18</a> : <a href="bibleversenav6_18.xhtml">1 - 28</a></p>
<p id="p137" class="p137 sb"><span id="pos69534"></span><span id="chapter18"></span><span id="chapter18_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>18 </strong></span>Then all the assembly of the Israelites congregated at Shi′loh, and they set up the tent of meeting there, as the land was now subdued before them. <span id="chapter18_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2 </sup></strong>But there were still seven tribes left of the Israelites whose inheritance had not been allotted. <span id="chapter18_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3 </sup></strong>So Joshua said to the Israelites: “How long will you put off going in to take possession of the land that Jehovah the God of your forefathers has given you? <span id="chapter18_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4 </sup></strong>Give me three men from each tribe to send out; they should go out and walk throughout the land and map it out according to their inheritance. Then they should return to me. <span id="chapter18_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5 </sup></strong>They must apportion it among themselves into seven shares. Judah will remain in his territory to the south, and the house of Joseph will remain in their territory to the north. <span id="chapter18_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6 </sup></strong>As for you, map out the land into seven shares, and bring them here to me, and I will cast lots here for you before Jehovah our God. <span id="page348"></span><span id="chapter18_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7 </sup></strong>But the Levites have no share among you, because the priesthood of Jehovah is their inheritance; and Gad, Reu′ben, and the half tribe of Ma·nas′seh have already taken their inheritance on the east side of the Jordan, which Moses the servant of Jehovah gave them.”</p>
<p id="p138" class="p138 sb"><span id="chapter18_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8 </sup></strong>The men prepared to go, and Joshua commanded those who were to map out the land: “Go and walk through the land and map it out and return to me, and I will cast lots for you here before Jehovah in Shi′loh.” <span id="chapter18_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9 </sup></strong>With that the men went and traveled through the land and mapped it out by cities into seven shares, recording it in a book. After that they returned to Joshua at the camp in Shi′loh. <span id="chapter18_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10 </sup></strong>Joshua then cast lots for them in Shi′loh before Jehovah. There Joshua apportioned the land to the Israelites by their shares.</p>
<p id="p139" class="p139 sb"><span id="pos71261"></span><span id="chapter18_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11 </sup></strong>The lot came up for the tribe of Benjamin by their families, and the territory of their lot was between the people of Judah and the people of Joseph. <span id="chapter18_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12 </sup></strong>On the north side, their boundary started at the Jordan, and the boundary went up to the slope of Jer′i·cho on the north and went up on the mountain westward, and it extended to the wilderness of Beth-a′ven. <span id="chapter18_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13 </sup></strong>And the boundary continued from there to Luz, at the southern slope of Luz, that is, Beth′el; the boundary went down to At′a·roth-ad′dar on the mountain that is south of Lower Beth-ho′ron. <span id="chapter18_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14 </sup></strong>And the boundary was marked at the western side and went around toward the south from the mountain that faces Beth-ho′ron to the south; it ended at Kir′i·ath-ba′al, that is, Kir′i·ath-je′a·rim, a city of Judah. This is the western side.</p>
<p id="p140" class="p140 sb"><span id="chapter18_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15 </sup></strong>The south side was from the extremity of Kir′i·ath-je′a·rim, and the boundary extended westward; it went out to the spring of the waters of Neph·to′ah. <span id="chapter18_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16 </sup></strong>The boundary went down to the extremity of the mountain that faces the Valley of the Son of Hin′nom, which is in the Valley<span id="footnotesource116"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote116">*</a> of Reph′a·im to the north, and it went down to the Valley of Hin′nom, to the slope of the Jeb′u·site on the south, and down to En-ro′gel. <span id="chapter18_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17 </sup></strong>And it was marked northward and extended to En-she′mesh and then out to Gel·i′loth, which is in front of the ascent of A·dum′mim, and it went down to the stone of Bo′han the son of Reu′ben. <span id="chapter18_verse18"></span><strong><sup>18 </sup></strong>And it continued to the northern slope in front of the Ar′a·bah and went down to the Ar′a·bah. <span id="chapter18_verse19"></span><strong><sup>19 </sup></strong>And the boundary continued to the northern slope of Beth-hog′lah, and the boundary ended at the northern bay of the Salt Sea<span id="footnotesource117"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote117">*</a> at the southern end of the Jordan. This was the southern boundary. <span id="chapter18_verse20"></span><strong><sup>20 </sup></strong>And the Jordan served as its boundary on the eastern side. This was the inheritance of the descendants of Benjamin by their families, according to its boundaries on all sides.</p>
<p id="p141" class="p141 sb"><span id="chapter18_verse21"></span><strong><sup>21 </sup></strong>And the cities of the tribe of Benjamin by their families were: Jer′i·cho, Beth-hog′lah, E′mek-ke′ziz, <span id="chapter18_verse22"></span><strong><sup>22 </sup></strong>Beth-ar′a·bah, Zem·a·ra′im, Beth′el, <span id="chapter18_verse23"></span><strong><sup>23 </sup></strong>Av′vim, Pa′rah, Oph′rah, <span id="chapter18_verse24"></span><strong><sup>24 </sup></strong>Che′phar-am′mo·ni, Oph′ni, and Ge′ba—12 cities and their settlements.</p>
<p id="p142" class="p142 sb"><span id="chapter18_verse25"></span><strong><sup>25 </sup></strong>Gib′e·on, Ra′mah, Be·er′oth, <span id="chapter18_verse26"></span><strong><sup>26 </sup></strong>Miz′peh, Che·phi′rah, Mo′zah, <span id="chapter18_verse27"></span><strong><sup>27 </sup></strong>Re′kem, Ir′pe·el, Tar′a·lah, <span id="chapter18_verse28"></span><strong><sup>28 </sup></strong>Ze′lah, Ha-e′leph, Je·bu′si, that is, Jerusalem, Gib′e·ah, and Kir′i·ath—14 cities and their settlements.</p>
<p id="p143" class="p143 sb"><span id="page349"></span>This was the inheritance of the descendants of Benjamin by their families.</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote116"><p><a href="036_JOS-.1-split18.xhtml#footnotesource116">^ <span class="footnoteref">Josh. 18:16</span></a> Or “Low Plain.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote117"><p><a href="036_JOS-.1-split18.xhtml#footnotesource117">^ <span class="footnoteref">Josh. 18:19</span></a> That is, the Dead Sea.</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
