<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>Joshua 16</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/docclass1.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
<p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">Joshua</a>  <a href="biblechapternav6.xhtml">16</a> : <a href="bibleversenav6_16.xhtml">1 - 10</a></p>
<p id="p128" class="p128 sb"><span id="pos64032"></span><span id="chapter16"></span><span id="chapter16_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>16 </strong></span>And the land that fell by lot<span id="footnotesource104"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote104">*</a> to the descendants of Joseph was from the Jordan at Jer′i·cho to the waters east of <span id="page346"></span>Jer′i·cho, through the wilderness going up from Jer′i·cho into the mountainous region of Beth′el. <span id="chapter16_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2 </sup></strong>It extended from Beth′el belonging to Luz and continued to the boundary of the Ar′chites at At′a·roth, <span id="chapter16_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3 </sup></strong>then it went down westward to the boundary of the Japh′le·tites as far as the boundary of Lower Beth-ho′ron and Ge′zer, and it ended at the sea.</p>
<p id="p129" class="p129 sb"><span id="chapter16_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4 </sup></strong>So Joseph’s descendants, Ma·nas′seh and E′phra·im, took possession of their land. <span id="pos64603"></span><span id="chapter16_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5 </sup></strong>The boundary of the descendants of E′phra·im by their families was as follows: The boundary of their inheritance to the east was At′a·roth-ad′dar, as far as Upper Beth-ho′ron, <span id="chapter16_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6 </sup></strong>and the boundary extended to the sea. Mich·me′thath was on the north, and the boundary went around east to Ta′a·nath-shi′loh, and it passed on the east to Ja·no′ah. <span id="chapter16_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7 </sup></strong>Then it went down from Ja·no′ah to At′a·roth and Na′a·rah and reached to Jer′i·cho and extended to the Jordan. <span id="chapter16_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8 </sup></strong>From Tap′pu·ah the boundary continued westward to the Wadi of Ka′nah, and it ended at the sea. This is the inheritance of the tribe of E′phra·im by their families; <span id="chapter16_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9 </sup></strong>the descendants of E′phra·im also had enclave cities in the midst of the inheritance of Ma·nas′seh, all the cities and their settlements.</p>
<p id="p130" class="p130 sb"><span id="chapter16_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10 </sup></strong>But they did not drive away the Ca′naan·ites who were dwelling in Ge′zer, and the Ca′naan·ites continue to dwell among E′phra·im to this day and have been subjected to forced labor.</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote104"><p><a href="036_JOS-.1-split16.xhtml#footnotesource104">^ <span class="footnoteref">Josh. 16:1</span></a> Or “was allotted.”</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
