<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>Joshua 20</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/docclass1.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
<p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">Joshua</a>  <a href="biblechapternav6.xhtml">20</a> : <a href="bibleversenav6_20.xhtml">1 - 9</a></p>
<p id="p152" class="p152 sb"><span id="pos79240"></span><span id="chapter20"></span><span id="chapter20_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>20 </strong></span>Then Jehovah said to Joshua: <span id="chapter20_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2 </sup></strong>“Tell the Israelites, ‘Select for yourselves the cities of refuge about which I spoke to you through Moses, <span id="chapter20_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3 </sup></strong>so that the manslayer who unintentionally or accidentally<span id="footnotesource119"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote119">*</a> kills someone<span id="footnotesource120"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote120">*</a> may flee there. And they will serve as a refuge for you from the avenger of blood. <span id="chapter20_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4 </sup></strong>He must flee to one of these cities and stand at the entrance of the city gate and present his case in the hearing of the elders of that city. Then they must receive him into the city and give him a place and he will live with them. <span id="chapter20_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5 </sup></strong>If the avenger of blood chases after him, they should not surrender the manslayer into his hand, for he killed his fellow man accidentally<span id="footnotesource121"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote121">*</a> and he did not previously hate him. <span id="chapter20_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6 </sup></strong>He must dwell in that city until he stands trial before the assembly and remain there until the death of the high priest who is in office at that time. Then the manslayer may return to the city from which he fled, and he may enter his city and his house.’”</p>
<p id="p153" class="p153 sb"><span id="page351"></span><span id="chapter20_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7 </sup></strong>So they gave a sacred status to<span id="footnotesource122"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote122">*</a> Ke′desh in Gal′i·lee in the mountainous region of Naph′ta·li, She′chem in the mountainous region of E′phra·im, and Kir′i·ath-ar′ba, that is, Heb′ron, in the mountainous region of Judah. <span id="chapter20_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8 </sup></strong>In the region of the Jordan, east of Jer′i·cho, they selected Be′zer in the wilderness on the tableland<span id="footnotesource123"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote123">*</a> out of the tribe of Reu′ben, Ra′moth in Gil′e·ad out of the tribe of Gad, and Go′lan in Ba′shan out of the tribe of Ma·nas′seh.</p>
<p id="p154" class="p154 sb"><span id="chapter20_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9 </sup></strong>These became the cities appointed for all the Israelites and for the foreign residents residing among them, so that anyone who unintentionally killed someone<span id="footnotesource124"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote124">*</a> could flee there and not die by the hand of the avenger of blood prior to standing trial before the assembly.</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote119"><p><a href="036_JOS-.1-split20.xhtml#footnotesource119">^ <span class="footnoteref">Josh. 20:3</span></a> Or “unknowingly.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote120"><p><a href="036_JOS-.1-split20.xhtml#footnotesource120">^ <span class="footnoteref">Josh. 20:3</span></a> Or “strikes a soul.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote121"><p><a href="036_JOS-.1-split20.xhtml#footnotesource121">^ <span class="footnoteref">Josh. 20:5</span></a> Or “unknowingly.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote122"><p><a href="036_JOS-.1-split20.xhtml#footnotesource122">^ <span class="footnoteref">Josh. 20:7</span></a> Or “they set apart.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote123"><p><a href="036_JOS-.1-split20.xhtml#footnotesource123">^ <span class="footnoteref">Josh. 20:8</span></a> Or “plateau.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote124"><p><a href="036_JOS-.1-split20.xhtml#footnotesource124">^ <span class="footnoteref">Josh. 20:9</span></a> Or “a soul.”</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
