<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>Joshua 21</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/docclass1.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
<p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">Joshua</a>  <a href="biblechapternav6.xhtml">21</a> : <a href="bibleversenav6_21.xhtml">1 - 45</a></p>
<p id="p155" class="p155 sb"><span id="pos80973"></span><span id="chapter21"></span><span id="chapter21_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>21 </strong></span>The heads of the paternal houses of the Levites now approached El·e·a′zar the priest, Joshua the son of Nun, and the heads of the paternal houses of the tribes of Israel, <span id="chapter21_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2 </sup></strong>and they spoke to them in Shi′loh in the land of Ca′naan, saying: “Jehovah through Moses commanded that we be given cities in which to dwell, along with their pastures for our livestock.” <span id="chapter21_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3 </sup></strong>So at the order of Jehovah, the Israelites gave the Levites these cities and their pastures out of their own inheritance.</p>
<p id="p156" class="p156 sb"><span id="chapter21_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4 </sup></strong>The lot came out for the families of the Ko′hath·ites, and the Levites who were descendants of Aaron the priest were given by lot<span id="footnotesource125"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote125">*</a> 13 cities out of the tribe of Judah, the tribe of Sim′e·on, and the tribe of Benjamin.</p>
<p id="p157" class="p157 sb"><span id="chapter21_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5 </sup></strong>And for the rest of the Ko′hath·ites, there were allotted<span id="footnotesource126"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote126">*</a> ten cities out of the families of the tribe of E′phra·im, the tribe of Dan, and the half tribe of Ma·nas′seh.</p>
<p id="p158" class="p158 sb"><span id="chapter21_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6 </sup></strong>And for the Ger′shon·ites, there were allotted 13 cities out of the families of the tribe of Is′sa·char, the tribe of Ash′er, the tribe of Naph′ta·li, and the half tribe of Ma·nas′seh in Ba′shan.</p>
<p id="p159" class="p159 sb"><span id="chapter21_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7 </sup></strong>For the Me·rar′ites by their families, there were 12 cities out of the tribe of Reu′ben, the tribe of Gad, and the tribe of Zeb′u·lun.</p>
<p id="p160" class="p160 sb"><span id="chapter21_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8 </sup></strong>Thus the Israelites gave the Levites these cities and their pastures by lot, just as Jehovah had commanded through Moses.</p>
<p id="p161" class="p161 sb"><span id="pos82343"></span><span id="chapter21_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9 </sup></strong>So from the tribe of Judah and the tribe of Sim′e·on, they gave these cities here mentioned by name, <span id="chapter21_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10 </sup></strong>and they were given to the sons of Aaron of the Ko′hath·ite families of the Levites, because they received the first lot. <span id="chapter21_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11 </sup></strong>They gave them Kir′i·ath-ar′ba (Ar′ba was the father of A′nak), that is, Heb′ron, in the mountainous region of Judah, and its surrounding pastures. <span id="chapter21_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12 </sup></strong>But the field of the city and its settlements they gave to Ca′leb the son of Je·phun′neh as his possession.</p>
<p id="p162" class="p162 sb"><span id="pos82849"></span><span id="chapter21_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13 </sup></strong>And to the sons of Aaron the priest, they gave the city of refuge for the manslayer, namely, Heb′ron with its pastures, also Lib′nah with its pastures, <span id="chapter21_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14 </sup></strong>Jat′tir with its pastures, Esh·te·mo′a with its pastures, <span id="chapter21_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15 </sup></strong>Ho′lon with its pastures, De′bir with its pastures, <span id="chapter21_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16 </sup></strong>A′in with its pastures, Jut′tah with its pastures, and Beth-she′mesh with its pastures—nine cities out of these two tribes.</p>
<p id="p163" class="p163 sb"><span id="chapter21_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17 </sup></strong>And from the tribe of Benjamin: Gib′e·on with its pastures, Ge′ba with its pastures, <span id="page352"></span><span id="chapter21_verse18"></span><strong><sup>18 </sup></strong>An′a·thoth with its pastures, and Al′mon with its pastures—four cities.</p>
<p id="p164" class="p164 sb"><span id="chapter21_verse19"></span><strong><sup>19 </sup></strong>All the cities given to the descendants of Aaron, the priests, were 13 cities with their pastures.</p>
<p id="p165" class="p165 sb"><span id="pos83557"></span><span id="chapter21_verse20"></span><strong><sup>20 </sup></strong>And the rest of the Ko′hath·ite families among the Levites were given by lot cities from the tribe of E′phra·im. <span id="pos83677"></span><span id="chapter21_verse21"></span><strong><sup>21 </sup></strong>They gave them the city of refuge for the manslayer, namely, She′chem with its pastures in the mountainous region of E′phra·im, Ge′zer with its pastures, <span id="chapter21_verse22"></span><strong><sup>22 </sup></strong>Kib′za·im with its pastures, and Beth-ho′ron with its pastures—four cities.</p>
<p id="p166" class="p166 sb"><span id="chapter21_verse23"></span><strong><sup>23 </sup></strong>And from the tribe of Dan: El′te·ke with its pastures, Gib′be·thon with its pastures, <span id="chapter21_verse24"></span><strong><sup>24 </sup></strong>Ai′ja·lon with its pastures, Gath-rim′mon with its pastures—four cities.</p>
<p id="p167" class="p167 sb"><span id="chapter21_verse25"></span><strong><sup>25 </sup></strong>And from the half tribe of Ma·nas′seh: Ta′a·nach with its pastures and Gath-rim′mon with its pastures—two cities.</p>
<p id="p168" class="p168 sb"><span id="chapter21_verse26"></span><strong><sup>26 </sup></strong>All the cities together with their pastures that the rest of the families of the Ko′hath·ites received were ten.</p>
<p id="p169" class="p169 sb"><span id="pos84341"></span><span id="chapter21_verse27"></span><strong><sup>27 </sup></strong>And the Ger′shon·ites of the families of the Levites received from the half tribe of Ma·nas′seh the city of refuge for the manslayer, namely, Go′lan, in Ba′shan, with its pastures and Be·esh′te·rah with its pastures—two cities.</p>
<p id="p170" class="p170 sb"><span id="chapter21_verse28"></span><strong><sup>28 </sup></strong>And from the tribe of Is′sa·char: Kish′i·on with its pastures, Dab′e·rath with its pastures, <span id="chapter21_verse29"></span><strong><sup>29 </sup></strong>Jar′muth with its pastures, and En-gan′nim with its pastures—four cities.</p>
<p id="p171" class="p171 sb"><span id="chapter21_verse30"></span><strong><sup>30 </sup></strong>And from the tribe of Ash′er: Mi′shal with its pastures, Ab′don with its pastures, <span id="chapter21_verse31"></span><strong><sup>31 </sup></strong>Hel′kath with its pastures, and Re′hob with its pastures—four cities.</p>
<p id="p172" class="p172 sb"><span id="chapter21_verse32"></span><strong><sup>32 </sup></strong>And from the tribe of Naph′ta·li: the city of refuge for the manslayer, namely, Ke′desh in Gal′i·lee with its pastures, Ham′moth-dor with its pastures, and Kar′tan with its pastures—three cities.</p>
<p id="p173" class="p173 sb"><span id="chapter21_verse33"></span><strong><sup>33 </sup></strong>All the cities of the Ger′shon·ites by their families were 13 cities with their pastures.</p>
<p id="p174" class="p174 sb"><span id="pos85233"></span><span id="chapter21_verse34"></span><strong><sup>34 </sup></strong>And the families of the Me·rar′ites, the rest of the Levites, received from the tribe of Zeb′u·lun: Jok′ne·am with its pastures, Kar′tah with its pastures, <span id="chapter21_verse35"></span><strong><sup>35 </sup></strong>Dim′nah with its pastures, and Na·hal′al with its pastures—four cities.</p>
<p id="p175" class="p175 sb"><span id="chapter21_verse36"></span><strong><sup>36 </sup></strong>And from the tribe of Reu′ben: Be′zer with its pastures, Ja′haz with its pastures, <span id="chapter21_verse37"></span><strong><sup>37 </sup></strong>Ked′e·moth with its pastures, and Meph′a·ath with its pastures—four cities.</p>
<p id="p176" class="p176 sb"><span id="chapter21_verse38"></span><strong><sup>38 </sup></strong>And from the tribe of Gad: the city of refuge for the manslayer, namely, Ra′moth in Gil′e·ad with its pastures, Ma·ha·na′im with its pastures, <span id="chapter21_verse39"></span><strong><sup>39 </sup></strong>Hesh′bon with its pastures, and Ja′zer with its pastures—a total of four cities.</p>
<p id="p177" class="p177 sb"><span id="chapter21_verse40"></span><strong><sup>40 </sup></strong>All the cities that were allotted to the Me·rar′ites by their families, the rest of the families of the Levites, were 12 cities.</p>
<p id="p178" class="p178 sb"><span id="chapter21_verse41"></span><strong><sup>41 </sup></strong>All the cities of the Levites within the possession of the Israelites were 48 cities together with their pastures. <span id="chapter21_verse42"></span><strong><sup>42 </sup></strong>Each of these cities had its pastures all around it—this was the case for all these cities.</p>
<p id="p179" class="p179 sb"><span id="pos86255"></span><span id="chapter21_verse43"></span><strong><sup>43 </sup></strong>So Jehovah gave Israel all the land that he had sworn to give to their forefathers, and they took possession of it and settled in it. <span id="chapter21_verse44"></span><strong><sup>44 </sup></strong>Furthermore, Jehovah gave them rest on every side, just as he had sworn to their forefathers, and not one of all their enemies could stand against them. Jehovah gave all <span id="page353"></span>their enemies into their hand. <span id="chapter21_verse45"></span><strong><sup>45 </sup></strong>Not a promise<span id="footnotesource127"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote127">*</a> failed out of all the good promises that Jehovah had made to the house of Israel; all of them came true.</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote125"><p><a href="036_JOS-.1-split21.xhtml#footnotesource125">^ <span class="footnoteref">Josh. 21:4</span></a> Or “were allotted.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote126"><p><a href="036_JOS-.1-split21.xhtml#footnotesource126">^ <span class="footnoteref">Josh. 21:5</span></a> Or “given by lot.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote127"><p><a href="036_JOS-.1-split21.xhtml#footnotesource127">^ <span class="footnoteref">Josh. 21:45</span></a> Or “word.”</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
