<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>Joshua 19</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/docclass1.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
<p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">Joshua</a>  <a href="biblechapternav6.xhtml">19</a> : <a href="bibleversenav6_19.xhtml">1 - 51</a></p>
<p id="p144" class="p144 sb"><span id="pos73773"></span><span id="chapter19"></span><span id="chapter19_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>19 </strong></span>Then the second lot came out for Sim′e·on, for the tribe of Sim′e·on by their families. And their inheritance was within the inheritance of Judah. <span id="chapter19_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2 </sup></strong>Their inheritance was Be′er-she′ba with She′ba, Mo·la′dah, <span id="chapter19_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3 </sup></strong>Ha′zar-shu′al, Ba′lah, E′zem, <span id="chapter19_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4 </sup></strong>El·to′lad, Be′thul, Hor′mah, <span id="chapter19_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5 </sup></strong>Zik′lag, Beth-mar′ca·both, Ha′zar-su′sah, <span id="chapter19_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6 </sup></strong>Beth-le·ba′oth, and Sha·ru′hen—13 cities and their settlements; <span id="chapter19_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7 </sup></strong>A′in, Rim′mon, E′ther, and A′shan—four cities and their settlements; <span id="chapter19_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8 </sup></strong>and all the settlements that were around these cities as far as Ba′al·ath-be′er, Ra′mah of the south. This was the inheritance of the tribe of Sim′e·on by their families. <span id="chapter19_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9 </sup></strong>The inheritance of the descendants of Sim′e·on was taken out of the allotment of Judah, because the share of Judah was too large for them. So the descendants of Sim′e·on received a possession within their inheritance.</p>
<p id="p145" class="p145 sb"><span id="pos74651"></span><span id="chapter19_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10 </sup></strong>Next the third lot came up for the descendants of Zeb′u·lun by their families, and the boundary of their inheritance went as far as Sa′rid. <span id="chapter19_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11 </sup></strong>Their boundary went up westward to Mar′e·al and reached to Dab′be·sheth and then to the valley<span id="footnotesource118"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote118">*</a> in front of Jok′ne·am. <span id="chapter19_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12 </sup></strong>And it went from Sa′rid eastward toward the sunrise, to the border of Chis′loth-ta′bor and out to Dab′e·rath and then up to Ja·phi′a. <span id="chapter19_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13 </sup></strong>And from there it continued eastward toward the sunrise to Gath-he′pher, to Eth-ka′zin, and out to Rim′mon, and it extended to Ne′ah. <span id="chapter19_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14 </sup></strong>And the boundary went around it on the north to Han′na·thon, and it ended at the Valley of Iph′tah-el, <span id="chapter19_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15 </sup></strong>and Kat′tath, Na·hal′al, Shim′ron, I′da·lah, and Beth′le·hem—12 cities and their settlements. <span id="chapter19_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16 </sup></strong>This was the inheritance of the descendants of Zeb′u·lun by their families. These were the cities and their settlements.</p>
<p id="p146" class="p146 sb"><span id="pos75552"></span><span id="chapter19_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17 </sup></strong>The fourth lot came out for Is′sa·char, for the descendants of Is′sa·char by their families. <span id="chapter19_verse18"></span><strong><sup>18 </sup></strong>And their boundary was to Jez′re·el, Che·sul′loth, Shu′nem, <span id="chapter19_verse19"></span><strong><sup>19 </sup></strong>Haph′a·ra′im, Shi′on, An·a·ha′rath, <span id="chapter19_verse20"></span><strong><sup>20 </sup></strong>Rab′bith, Kish′i·on, E′bez, <span id="chapter19_verse21"></span><strong><sup>21 </sup></strong>Re′meth, En-gan′nim, En-had′dah, and Beth-paz′zez. <span id="chapter19_verse22"></span><strong><sup>22 </sup></strong>And the boundary reached to Ta′bor and Sha·ha·zu′mah and Beth-she′mesh, and the end of their border was at the Jordan—16 cities and their settlements. <span id="chapter19_verse23"></span><strong><sup>23 </sup></strong>This was the inheritance of the tribe of Is′sa·char by their families, the cities and their settlements.</p>
<p id="p147" class="p147 sb"><span id="pos76132"></span><span id="chapter19_verse24"></span><strong><sup>24 </sup></strong>Then the fifth lot came out for the tribe of Ash′er by their families. <span id="chapter19_verse25"></span><strong><sup>25 </sup></strong>And their boundary was Hel′kath, Ha′li, Be′ten, Ach′shaph, <span id="chapter19_verse26"></span><strong><sup>26 </sup></strong>Al·lam′me·lech, A′mad, and Mi′shal. It reached westward to Car′mel and to Shi′hor-lib′nath, <span id="chapter19_verse27"></span><strong><sup>27 </sup></strong>and it went back toward the east to Beth-da′gon and reached to Zeb′u·lun and the Valley of Iph′tah-el to the north, to Beth-e′mek and Ne·i′el, and it extended to Ca′bul on the left, <span id="chapter19_verse28"></span><strong><sup>28 </sup></strong>and to E′bron, Re′hob, Ham′mon, and Ka′nah as far as Great Si′don. <span id="chapter19_verse29"></span><strong><sup>29 </sup></strong>And the boundary went back to Ra′mah and as far as the fortified city of Tyre. Then the boundary went back to Ho′sah, and it ended at the sea in the region of Ach′zib, <span id="chapter19_verse30"></span><strong><sup>30 </sup></strong>Um′mah, A′phek, and Re′hob—22 cities and their settlements. <span id="chapter19_verse31"></span><strong><sup>31 </sup></strong>This was the inheritance of the tribe of Ash′er <span id="page350"></span>by their families. These were the cities and their settlements.</p>
<p id="p148" class="p148 sb"><span id="pos77010"></span><span id="chapter19_verse32"></span><strong><sup>32 </sup></strong>The sixth lot came out for the descendants of Naph′ta·li, for the descendants of Naph′ta·li by their families. <span id="chapter19_verse33"></span><strong><sup>33 </sup></strong>Their boundary was from He′leph, from the big tree in Za·a·nan′nim, and Ad′a·mi-ne′keb and Jab′ne·el as far as Lak′kum; and it ended at the Jordan. <span id="chapter19_verse34"></span><strong><sup>34 </sup></strong>The boundary went back westward to Az′noth-ta′bor and extended from there to Huk′kok and reached to Zeb′u·lun on the south and to Ash′er on the west and to Judah at the Jordan toward the east. <span id="chapter19_verse35"></span><strong><sup>35 </sup></strong>And the fortified cities were Zid′dim, Zer, Ham′math, Rak′kath, Chin′ne·reth, <span id="chapter19_verse36"></span><strong><sup>36 </sup></strong>Ad′a·mah, Ra′mah, Ha′zor, <span id="chapter19_verse37"></span><strong><sup>37 </sup></strong>Ke′desh, Ed′re·i, En-ha′zor, <span id="chapter19_verse38"></span><strong><sup>38 </sup></strong>Yi′ron, Mig′dal-el, Ho′rem, Beth-a′nath, and Beth-she′mesh—19 cities and their settlements. <span id="chapter19_verse39"></span><strong><sup>39 </sup></strong>This was the inheritance of the tribe of Naph′ta·li by their families, the cities and their settlements.</p>
<p id="p149" class="p149 sb"><span id="pos77854"></span><span id="chapter19_verse40"></span><strong><sup>40 </sup></strong>The seventh lot came out for the tribe of Dan by their families. <span id="chapter19_verse41"></span><strong><sup>41 </sup></strong>And the border of their inheritance was Zo′rah, Esh′ta·ol, Ir-she′mesh, <span id="chapter19_verse42"></span><strong><sup>42 </sup></strong>Sha·al·ab′bin, Ai′ja·lon, Ith′lah, <span id="chapter19_verse43"></span><strong><sup>43 </sup></strong>E′lon, Tim′nah, Ek′ron, <span id="chapter19_verse44"></span><strong><sup>44 </sup></strong>El′te·keh, Gib′be·thon, Ba′al·ath, <span id="chapter19_verse45"></span><strong><sup>45 </sup></strong>Je′hud, Ben′e-be′rak, Gath-rim′mon, <span id="chapter19_verse46"></span><strong><sup>46 </sup></strong>Me-jar′kon, and Rak′kon, with the border facing Jop′pa. <span id="chapter19_verse47"></span><strong><sup>47 </sup></strong>But the territory of Dan was too cramped for them. So they went up and fought against Le′shem and captured it and struck it with the sword. Then they took possession of it and settled in it, and they changed the name of Le′shem to Dan, after the name of Dan their forefather. <span id="chapter19_verse48"></span><strong><sup>48 </sup></strong>This was the inheritance of the tribe of Dan by their families. These were the cities and their settlements.</p>
<p id="p150" class="p150 sb"><span id="pos78638"></span><span id="chapter19_verse49"></span><strong><sup>49 </sup></strong>Thus they finished dividing the land for inheritance by its territories. Then the Israelites gave Joshua the son of Nun an inheritance in their midst. <span id="chapter19_verse50"></span><strong><sup>50 </sup></strong>At the order of Jehovah they gave him the city he asked for, Tim′nath-se′rah, in the mountainous region of E′phra·im, and he built up the city and settled in it.</p>
<p id="p151" class="p151 sb"><span id="chapter19_verse51"></span><strong><sup>51 </sup></strong>These were the inheritances that El·e·a′zar the priest, Joshua the son of Nun, and the heads of the paternal houses of the tribes of Israel distributed by lot in Shi′loh before Jehovah, at the entrance of the tent of meeting. So they finished apportioning the land.</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote118"><p><a href="036_JOS-.1-split19.xhtml#footnotesource118">^ <span class="footnoteref">Josh. 19:11</span></a> Or “wadi.”</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
