<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>Joshua 13</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/docclass1.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
<p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">Joshua</a>  <a href="biblechapternav6.xhtml">13</a> : <a href="bibleversenav6_13.xhtml">1 - 33</a></p>
<p id="p99" class="p99 sb"><span id="pos50406"></span><span id="chapter13"></span><span id="chapter13_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>13 </strong></span>Now Joshua had grown old and was advanced in years. So Jehovah said to him: “You have grown old and are advanced in years; but much of the land remains to be taken in possession.<span id="footnotesource69"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote69">*</a> <span id="chapter13_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2 </sup></strong>This is the land remaining: all the regions of the Phi·lis′tines and all the Gesh′ur·ites <span id="chapter13_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3 </sup></strong>(from the branch of the Nile<span id="footnotesource70"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote70">*</a> that is east of<span id="footnotesource71"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote71">*</a> Egypt up to the border of Ek′ron to the north, which used to be considered Ca′naan·ite territory) including that of the five lords of the Phi·lis′tines—the Gaz′ites, the Ash′dod·ites, the Ash′ke·lon·ites, the Git′tites, and the Ek′ron·ites; that of the Av′vim <span id="chapter13_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4 </sup></strong>to the south; all the land of the Ca′naan·ites; Me·ar′ah, which belongs to the Si·do′ni·ans, as far as A′phek, to the border of the Am′or·ites; <span id="chapter13_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5 </sup></strong>the land of the Ge′bal·ites and all of Leb′a·non toward the east, from Ba′al-gad at the base of Mount Her′mon to Le′bo-ha′math;<span id="footnotesource72"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote72">*</a> <span id="chapter13_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6 </sup></strong>all the inhabitants of the mountainous region from Leb′a·non to Mis′re·photh-ma′im; and all the Si·do′ni·ans. I will drive them out<span id="footnotesource73"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote73">*</a> before the Israelites. You have only to assign it to Israel as an inheritance, just as I have commanded you. <span id="chapter13_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7 </sup></strong>Now you must apportion this land as an inheritance to the nine tribes and the half tribe of Ma·nas′seh.”</p>
<p id="p100" class="p100 sb"><span id="pos51650"></span><span id="chapter13_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8 </sup></strong>With the other half tribe, the Reu′ben·ites and the Gad′ites took their inheritance that Moses gave them on the east side of the Jordan, just as Moses the servant of Jehovah had given them: <span id="chapter13_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9 </sup></strong>from A·ro′er, which is on the rim of the Ar′non Valley,<span id="footnotesource74"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote74">*</a> and the city that <span id="page342"></span>is in the middle of the valley, and all the tableland<span id="footnotesource75"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote75">*</a> of Med′e·ba as far as Di′bon; <span id="chapter13_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10 </sup></strong>and all the cities of King Si′hon of the Am′or·ites, who reigned in Hesh′bon, up to the border of the Am′mon·ites; <span id="chapter13_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11 </sup></strong>also Gil′e·ad and the territory of the Gesh′ur·ites and the Ma·ac′a·thites and all Mount Her′mon and all Ba′shan as far as Sal′e·cah; <span id="chapter13_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12 </sup></strong>all the royal realm of Og in Ba′shan, who reigned in Ash′ta·roth and in Ed′re·i. (He was one of the last of the Reph′a·im.) Moses defeated them and drove them out.<span id="footnotesource76"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote76">*</a> <span id="chapter13_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13 </sup></strong>But the Israelites did not drive out<span id="footnotesource77"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote77">*</a> the Gesh′ur·ites and the Ma·ac′a·thites, for Gesh′ur and Ma′a·cath live in the midst of Israel to this day.</p>
<p id="p101" class="p101 sb"><span id="chapter13_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14 </sup></strong>It was only to the tribe of the Levites that he did not give an inheritance. The offerings made by fire to Jehovah the God of Israel are their inheritance, just as he promised them.</p>
<p id="p102" class="p102 sb"><span id="pos52800"></span><span id="chapter13_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15 </sup></strong>Then Moses gave an inheritance to the tribe of the Reu′ben·ites by their families, <span id="chapter13_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16 </sup></strong>and their territory was from A·ro′er, which is on the rim of the Ar′non Valley,<span id="footnotesource78"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote78">*</a> and the city in the middle of the valley, and all the tableland by Med′e·ba; <span id="chapter13_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17 </sup></strong>Hesh′bon and all its towns on the tableland, Di′bon, Ba′moth-ba′al, Beth-ba′al-me′on, <span id="chapter13_verse18"></span><strong><sup>18 </sup></strong>Ja′haz, Ked′e·moth, Meph′a·ath, <span id="chapter13_verse19"></span><strong><sup>19 </sup></strong>Kir·i·a·tha′im, Sib′mah, and Ze′reth-sha′har on the mountain of the valley,<span id="footnotesource79"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote79">*</a> <span id="chapter13_verse20"></span><strong><sup>20 </sup></strong>Beth-pe′or, the slopes of Pis′gah, Beth-jesh′i·moth, <span id="chapter13_verse21"></span><strong><sup>21 </sup></strong>all the cities of the tableland, and all the royal realm of King Si′hon of the Am′or·ites, who reigned in Hesh′bon. Moses defeated him and the Mid′i·an·ite chieftains E′vi, Re′kem, Zur, Hur, and Re′ba, vassals<span id="footnotesource80"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote80">*</a> of Si′hon who were dwelling in the land. <span id="chapter13_verse22"></span><strong><sup>22 </sup></strong>Ba′laam the son of Be′or, the diviner, was one whom the Israelites killed with the sword along with the rest who were slain. <span id="chapter13_verse23"></span><strong><sup>23 </sup></strong>The boundary of the Reu′ben·ites was the Jordan; and this territory was the inheritance of the Reu′ben·ites by their families, with the cities and their settlements.</p>
<p id="p103" class="p103 sb"><span id="pos53908"></span><span id="chapter13_verse24"></span><strong><sup>24 </sup></strong>Furthermore, Moses gave an inheritance to the tribe of Gad, the Gad′ites by their families, <span id="chapter13_verse25"></span><strong><sup>25 </sup></strong>and their territory included Ja′zer and all the cities of Gil′e·ad and half of the land of the Am′mon·ites as far as A·ro′er, which faces Rab′bah; <span id="chapter13_verse26"></span><strong><sup>26 </sup></strong>and from Hesh′bon to Ra′math-miz′peh and Bet′o·nim, and from Ma·ha·na′im to the border of De′bir; <span id="chapter13_verse27"></span><strong><sup>27 </sup></strong>and in the valley,<span id="footnotesource81"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote81">*</a> Beth-ha′ram, Beth-nim′rah, Suc′coth, and Za′phon, the rest of the royal realm of King Si′hon of Hesh′bon, with the Jordan as the border from the lower end of the Sea of Chin′ne·reth<span id="footnotesource82"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote82">*</a> on the east side of the Jordan. <span id="chapter13_verse28"></span><strong><sup>28 </sup></strong>This was the inheritance of the Gad′ites by their families, with the cities and their settlements.</p>
<p id="p104" class="p104 sb"><span id="pos54623"></span><span id="chapter13_verse29"></span><strong><sup>29 </sup></strong>Further, Moses gave an inheritance to the half tribe of Ma·nas′seh, to half of the tribe of Ma·nas′seh by their families. <span id="chapter13_verse30"></span><strong><sup>30 </sup></strong>And their territory extended from Ma·ha·na′im and took in all of Ba′shan, all the royal realm of King Og of Ba′shan, and all the tent villages of Ja′ir in Ba′shan, 60 towns. <span id="chapter13_verse31"></span><strong><sup>31 </sup></strong>And half of Gil′e·ad, and Ash′ta·roth and Ed′re·i, the cities of the royal realm of Og in Ba′shan, went to the sons of Ma′chir the son of Ma·nas′seh, <span id="page343"></span>to half of the sons of Ma′chir by their families.</p>
<p id="p105" class="p105 sb"><span id="chapter13_verse32"></span><strong><sup>32 </sup></strong>These were the inheritances that Moses gave them on the desert plains of Mo′ab beyond the Jordan, east of Jer′i·cho.</p>
<p id="p106" class="p106 sb"><span id="pos55274"></span><span id="chapter13_verse33"></span><strong><sup>33 </sup></strong>But to the tribe of the Levites, Moses did not give an inheritance. Jehovah the God of Israel is their inheritance, just as he promised them.</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote69"><p><a href="036_JOS-.1-split13.xhtml#footnotesource69">^ <span class="footnoteref">Josh. 13:1</span></a> Or “be conquered.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote70"><p><a href="036_JOS-.1-split13.xhtml#footnotesource70">^ <span class="footnoteref">Josh. 13:3</span></a> Or “from Shihor.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote71"><p><a href="036_JOS-.1-split13.xhtml#footnotesource71">^ <span class="footnoteref">Josh. 13:3</span></a> Lit., “in front of.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote72"><p><a href="036_JOS-.1-split13.xhtml#footnotesource72">^ <span class="footnoteref">Josh. 13:5</span></a> Or “the entrance of Hamath.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote73"><p><a href="036_JOS-.1-split13.xhtml#footnotesource73">^ <span class="footnoteref">Josh. 13:6</span></a> Or “dispossess them.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote74"><p><a href="036_JOS-.1-split13.xhtml#footnotesource74">^ <span class="footnoteref">Josh. 13:9</span></a> Or “Wadi Arnon.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote75"><p><a href="036_JOS-.1-split13.xhtml#footnotesource75">^ <span class="footnoteref">Josh. 13:9</span></a> Or “plateau.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote76"><p><a href="036_JOS-.1-split13.xhtml#footnotesource76">^ <span class="footnoteref">Josh. 13:12</span></a> Or “dispossessed them.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote77"><p><a href="036_JOS-.1-split13.xhtml#footnotesource77">^ <span class="footnoteref">Josh. 13:13</span></a> Or “dispossess.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote78"><p><a href="036_JOS-.1-split13.xhtml#footnotesource78">^ <span class="footnoteref">Josh. 13:16</span></a> Or “Wadi Arnon.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote79"><p><a href="036_JOS-.1-split13.xhtml#footnotesource79">^ <span class="footnoteref">Josh. 13:19</span></a> Or “low plain.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote80"><p><a href="036_JOS-.1-split13.xhtml#footnotesource80">^ <span class="footnoteref">Josh. 13:21</span></a> That is, kings who were subject to Sihon.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote81"><p><a href="036_JOS-.1-split13.xhtml#footnotesource81">^ <span class="footnoteref">Josh. 13:27</span></a> Or “low plain.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote82"><p><a href="036_JOS-.1-split13.xhtml#footnotesource82">^ <span class="footnoteref">Josh. 13:27</span></a> That is, the lake of Gennesaret, or the Sea of Galilee.</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
