<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>Judges 7</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/docclass1.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
<p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">Judges</a>  <a href="biblechapternav7.xhtml">7</a> : <a href="bibleversenav7_7.xhtml">1 - 25</a></p>
<p id="p94" class="p94 sb"><span id="pos29162"></span><span id="chapter7"></span><span id="chapter7_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>7 </strong></span>Then Jer·ub·ba′al, that is, Gid′e·on, and all the people with him rose early and encamped at the well of Ha′rod, while the camp of Mid′i·an was north of him at the hill of Mo′reh in the valley plain.<span id="footnotesource69"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote69">*</a> <span id="chapter7_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2 </sup></strong>Jehovah now said to Gid′e·on: “There are too many people with you for me to give Mid′i·an into their hand. Otherwise, Israel might <span id="page369"></span>brag about itself against me and say, ‘My own hand saved me.’ <span id="chapter7_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3 </sup></strong>Now, please, announce in the presence of the people: ‘Whoever is afraid and trembling, let him return home.’” So Gid′e·on put them to the test. With that, 22,000 of the people returned home, and 10,000 remained.</p>
<p id="p95" class="p95 sb"><span id="chapter7_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4 </sup></strong>Still Jehovah said to Gid′e·on: “There are yet too many people. Have them go down to the water so that I may test them for you there. When I say to you, ‘This one will go with you,’ he will go with you, but when I say to you, ‘This one will not go along with you,’ he will not go along.” <span id="chapter7_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5 </sup></strong>So he took the people down to the water.</p>
<p id="p96" class="p96 sb">Then Jehovah said to Gid′e·on: “Separate everyone who laps up the water with his tongue just as a dog laps, from those who bend down on their knees to drink.” <span id="chapter7_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6 </sup></strong>The number of those lapping up the water, putting their hand to their mouth, was 300 men. The rest of the people bent down on their knees to drink.</p>
<p id="p97" class="p97 sb"><span id="chapter7_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7 </sup></strong>Jehovah now said to Gid′e·on: “I will save you with the 300 men who lapped the water, and I will give Mid′i·an into your hand. But let all the other people go back home.” <span id="chapter7_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8 </sup></strong>So after they took the provisions and the horns from the people, he sent all the other men of Israel back home, and he kept only the 300 men. The camp of Mid′i·an was below him in the valley plain.</p>
<p id="p98" class="p98 sb"><span id="pos30814"></span><span id="chapter7_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9 </sup></strong>During that night, Jehovah said to him: “Get up, attack the camp, for I have given it into your hand. <span id="chapter7_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10 </sup></strong>But if you are afraid to attack, go down to the camp with Pu′rah your attendant. <span id="chapter7_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11 </sup></strong>Listen to what they say, and afterward you will have the courage<span id="footnotesource70"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote70">*</a> to attack the camp.” At that he and Pu′rah his attendant went down to the edge of the encamped army.</p>
<p id="p99" class="p99 sb"><span id="chapter7_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12 </sup></strong>Now Mid′i·an and Am′a·lek and all the Easterners covered the valley plain like a swarm of locusts, and their camels were without number, as many as the grains of sand on the seashore. <span id="chapter7_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13 </sup></strong>Gid′e·on now came, and there was a man relating a dream to his companion, and he said: “This is the dream I had. There was a round loaf of barley bread rolling into the camp of Mid′i·an. It came to a tent and struck it so hard that it collapsed. Yes, it turned the tent upside down, and the tent fell flat.” <span id="chapter7_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14 </sup></strong>At this his companion said: “This can only be the sword of Gid′e·on the son of Jo′ash, a man of Israel. God has given Mid′i·an and all the camp into his hand.”</p>
<p id="p100" class="p100 sb"><span id="chapter7_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15 </sup></strong>As soon as Gid′e·on heard him relate the dream and its interpretation, he bowed down to worship. After that he returned to the camp of Israel and said: “Get up, for Jehovah has given the camp of Mid′i·an into your hand.” <span id="chapter7_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16 </sup></strong>Then he divided the 300 men into three bands and gave all of them horns and large empty jars with torches inside the jars. <span id="chapter7_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17 </sup></strong>Then he said to them: “Watch me and do exactly what I do. When I come to the edge of the camp, you should do just as I do. <span id="chapter7_verse18"></span><strong><sup>18 </sup></strong>When I blow the horn, I and all who are with me, you also must blow the horns all around the camp and shout, ‘For Jehovah and for Gid′e·on!’”</p>
<p id="p101" class="p101 sb"><span id="chapter7_verse19"></span><strong><sup>19 </sup></strong>Gid′e·on and the 100 men who were with him came to the edge of the camp at the start of the middle night watch,<span id="footnotesource71"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote71">*</a> just after the sentries were posted. They blew the horns and <span id="page370"></span>smashed the large water jars that were in their hands. <span id="pos32741"></span><span id="chapter7_verse20"></span><strong><sup>20 </sup></strong>So the three bands blew the horns and shattered the large jars. They held the torches in their left hands and blew the horns in their right hands and they called out: “The sword of Jehovah and of Gid′e·on!” <span id="pos32955"></span><span id="chapter7_verse21"></span><strong><sup>21 </sup></strong>All the while each man stood in his place all around the camp, and the whole army ran away, shouting as they fled. <span id="chapter7_verse22"></span><strong><sup>22 </sup></strong>The 300 continued to blow the horns, and Jehovah turned the sword of each one against the other throughout the camp; and the army fled as far as Beth-shit′tah, on to Zer′e·rah, as far as the outskirts of A′bel-me·ho′lah by Tab′bath.</p>
<p id="p102" class="p102 sb"><span id="chapter7_verse23"></span><strong><sup>23 </sup></strong>And the men of Israel were called together from Naph′ta·li, Ash′er, and all of Ma·nas′seh, and they chased after Mid′i·an. <span id="chapter7_verse24"></span><strong><sup>24 </sup></strong>Gid′e·on sent messengers into all the mountainous region of E′phra·im, saying: “Go down to attack Mid′i·an, and capture the access to the waters as far as Beth-bar′ah and the Jordan.” So all the men of E′phra·im were gathered together, and they captured the waters as far as Beth-bar′ah and the Jordan. <span id="chapter7_verse25"></span><strong><sup>25 </sup></strong>They also captured the two princes of Mid′i·an, O′reb and Ze′eb; they killed O′reb on the rock of O′reb, and they killed Ze′eb at the winepress of Ze′eb. They kept on pursuing Mid′i·an, and they brought the heads of O′reb and Ze′eb to Gid′e·on in the region of the Jordan.</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote69"><p><a href="038_JG-1-split7.xhtml#footnotesource69">^ <span class="footnoteref">Judg. 7:1</span></a> Or “low plain.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote70"><p><a href="038_JG-1-split7.xhtml#footnotesource70">^ <span class="footnoteref">Judg. 7:11</span></a> Lit., “your hands will grow strong.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote71"><p><a href="038_JG-1-split7.xhtml#footnotesource71">^ <span class="footnoteref">Judg. 7:19</span></a> From about 10:00 p.m. to about 2:00 a.m.</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
