<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>Judges 15</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/docclass1.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
<p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">Judges</a>  <a href="biblechapternav7.xhtml">15</a> : <a href="bibleversenav7_15.xhtml">1 - 20</a></p>
<p id="p174" class="p174 sb"><span id="pos66875"></span><span id="chapter15"></span><span id="chapter15_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>15 </strong></span>After a while, in the days of the wheat harvest, Samson went to visit his wife, bringing a young goat. He said: “I wish to go in to my wife in the bedroom.”<span id="footnotesource107"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote107">*</a> But her father did not allow him to go in. <span id="chapter15_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2 </sup></strong>Her father said: “I thought, ‘You must surely hate her.’ So I gave her to your groomsman. Is not her younger sister more attractive than she is? Please, take her instead.” <span id="chapter15_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3 </sup></strong>However, Samson said to them: “This time I cannot be blamed by the Phi·lis′tines for harming them.”</p>
<p id="p175" class="p175 sb"><span id="chapter15_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4 </sup></strong>So Samson went and caught 300 foxes. Then he took torches, turned the foxes tail to <span id="page381"></span>tail, and put one torch between each pair of tails. <span id="chapter15_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5 </sup></strong>Then he set fire to the torches and sent the foxes out into the fields of standing grain of the Phi·lis′tines. He set on fire everything from sheaf to standing grain, as well as the vineyards and the olive groves.</p>
<p id="p176" class="p176 sb"><span id="chapter15_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6 </sup></strong>The Phi·lis′tines asked: “Who did this?” They were told: “It was Samson, the son-in-law of the Tim′nite, because he took his wife and gave her to his groomsman.” At that the Phi·lis′tines went up and burned her and her father with fire. <span id="chapter15_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7 </sup></strong>Then Samson said to them: “If this is how you act, I will not quit until I take revenge on you.” <span id="chapter15_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8 </sup></strong>Then he struck them down one after the other<span id="footnotesource108"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote108">*</a> with a great slaughter, after which he went down and stayed in a cave<span id="footnotesource109"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote109">*</a> of the crag E′tam.</p>
<p id="p177" class="p177 sb"><span id="chapter15_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9 </sup></strong>Later the Phi·lis′tines came up and camped in Judah and were tramping about in Le′hi. <span id="chapter15_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10 </sup></strong>Then the men of Judah said: “Why have you come up against us?” to which they answered: “We have come up to capture<span id="footnotesource110"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote110">*</a> Samson, to do to him just as he did to us.” <span id="chapter15_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11 </sup></strong>So 3,000 men of Judah went down to the cave<span id="footnotesource111"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote111">*</a> of the crag E′tam and said to Samson: “Do you not know that the Phi·lis′tines are ruling over us? So why have you done this to us?” He said to them: “As they did to me, so I did to them.” <span id="chapter15_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12 </sup></strong>But they said to him: “We have come to capture<span id="footnotesource112"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote112">*</a> you and to hand you over to the Phi·lis′tines.” Then Samson said: “Swear to me that you yourselves will not assault me.” <span id="chapter15_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13 </sup></strong>They said to him: “No, we will only tie you and hand you over to them, but we will not put you to death.”</p>
<p id="p178" class="p178 sb">So they bound him with two new ropes and brought him up from the crag. <span id="chapter15_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14 </sup></strong>When he came to Le′hi, the Phi·lis′tines shouted triumphantly at meeting him. Then Jehovah’s spirit empowered him, and the ropes on his arms became like linen threads that were scorched with fire, and his fetters melted off his hands. <span id="chapter15_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15 </sup></strong>He now found a fresh jawbone of a male donkey; he reached out and grabbed it and struck down 1,000 men with it. <span id="chapter15_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16 </sup></strong>Then Samson said:</p>
<p id="p179" class="p179 sz">“With the jawbone of a donkey—one heap, two heaps!</p>
<p id="p180" class="p180 sb">With the jawbone of a donkey I struck down 1,000 men.”</p>
<p id="p181" class="p181 sb"><span id="chapter15_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17 </sup></strong>When he finished speaking, he threw the jawbone away and called that place Ra′math-le′hi.<span id="footnotesource113"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote113">*</a> <span id="chapter15_verse18"></span><strong><sup>18 </sup></strong>Then he became very thirsty, and he called on Jehovah and said: “It was you who gave this great salvation into the hand of your servant. But now am I to die of thirst and fall into the hands of the uncircumcised?” <span id="chapter15_verse19"></span><strong><sup>19 </sup></strong>So God split open a hollow that was in Le′hi, and water flowed from it. When he drank, his spirit<span id="footnotesource114"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote114">*</a> returned and he revived. That is why he named the place En-hak·kor′e,<span id="footnotesource115"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote115">*</a> which is in Le′hi to this day.</p>
<p id="p182" class="p182 sb"><span id="chapter15_verse20"></span><strong><sup>20 </sup></strong>And he judged Israel in the days of the Phi·lis′tines for 20 years.</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote107"><p><a href="038_JG-1-split15.xhtml#footnotesource107">^ <span class="footnoteref">Judg. 15:1</span></a> Or “the interior room.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote108"><p><a href="038_JG-1-split15.xhtml#footnotesource108">^ <span class="footnoteref">Judg. 15:8</span></a> Lit., “struck them leg on thigh.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote109"><p><a href="038_JG-1-split15.xhtml#footnotesource109">^ <span class="footnoteref">Judg. 15:8</span></a> Or “cleft.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote110"><p><a href="038_JG-1-split15.xhtml#footnotesource110">^ <span class="footnoteref">Judg. 15:10</span></a> Or “tie.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote111"><p><a href="038_JG-1-split15.xhtml#footnotesource111">^ <span class="footnoteref">Judg. 15:11</span></a> Or “cleft.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote112"><p><a href="038_JG-1-split15.xhtml#footnotesource112">^ <span class="footnoteref">Judg. 15:12</span></a> Or “tie.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote113"><p><a href="038_JG-1-split15.xhtml#footnotesource113">^ <span class="footnoteref">Judg. 15:17</span></a> Meaning “Lofty Place of the Jawbone.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote114"><p><a href="038_JG-1-split15.xhtml#footnotesource114">^ <span class="footnoteref">Judg. 15:19</span></a> Or “strength.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote115"><p><a href="038_JG-1-split15.xhtml#footnotesource115">^ <span class="footnoteref">Judg. 15:19</span></a> Meaning “Spring of the One Calling.”</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
