<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>Judges 1</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/docclass1.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
<p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">Judges</a>  <a href="biblechapternav7.xhtml">1</a> : <a href="bibleversenav7_1.xhtml">1 - 36</a></p>
<header>
<h1 id="p1"><span id="page359"></span><strong>JUDGES</strong></h1>
</header>
<p id="p2" class="p2 sb"><span id="pos47"></span><span id="chapter1"></span><span id="chapter1_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>1 </strong></span>After the death of Joshua, the Israelites<span id="footnotesource1"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote1">*</a> inquired of Jehovah: “Who of us will go up first to fight against the Ca′naan·ites?” <span id="chapter1_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2 </sup></strong>Jehovah replied: “Judah will go up. Look! I am giving<span id="footnotesource2"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote2">*</a> the land into his hand.” <span id="chapter1_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3 </sup></strong>Then Judah said to his brother Sim′e·on: “Come up with me into my assigned territory<span id="footnotesource3"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote3">*</a> to fight against the Ca′naan·ites. Then I will go with you into your assigned territory.” So Sim′e·on went with him.</p>
<p id="p3" class="p3 sb"><span id="chapter1_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4 </sup></strong>When Judah went up, Jehovah gave the Ca′naan·ites and the Per′iz·zites into their hands, and they defeated 10,000 men in Be′zek. <span id="chapter1_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5 </sup></strong>They found A·do′ni-be′zek in Be′zek, and there they fought against him and defeated the Ca′naan·ites and the Per′iz·zites. <span id="chapter1_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6 </sup></strong>When A·do′ni-be′zek fled, they chased him and caught him and cut off his thumbs and his big toes. <span id="chapter1_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7 </sup></strong>Then A·do′ni-be′zek said: “There are 70 kings whose thumbs and big toes were cut off and who are picking up food under my table. Just as I have done, so God has repaid me.” After that they brought him to Jerusalem, and he died there.</p>
<p id="p4" class="p4 sb"><span id="chapter1_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8 </sup></strong>Furthermore, the men of Judah fought against Jerusalem and captured it; they struck it with the sword and set the city on fire. <span id="chapter1_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9 </sup></strong>Afterward, the men of Judah went down to fight against the Ca′naan·ites inhabiting the mountainous region and the Neg′eb and the She·phe′lah. <span id="chapter1_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10 </sup></strong>So Judah marched against the Ca′naan·ites who were dwelling in Heb′ron (the name of Heb′ron was previously Kir′i·ath-ar′ba), and they struck down She′shai, A·hi′man, and Tal′mai.</p>
<p id="p5" class="p5 sb"><span id="chapter1_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11 </sup></strong>They marched from there against the inhabitants of De′bir. (The name of De′bir was previously Kir′i·ath-se′pher.) <span id="chapter1_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12 </sup></strong>Then Ca′leb said: “To the man who strikes Kir′i·ath-se′pher and captures it, I will give my daughter Ach′sah as a wife.” <span id="chapter1_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13 </sup></strong>And Oth′ni·el the son of Ke′naz, Ca′leb’s younger brother, captured it. So he gave him his daughter Ach′sah as a wife. <span id="chapter1_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14 </sup></strong>While she was going home, she urged him to ask her father for a field. Then she dismounted from her donkey.<span id="footnotesource4"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote4">*</a> Ca′leb asked her: “What do you want?” <span id="chapter1_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15 </sup></strong>She said to him: “Please grant me a blessing, for you have given me a piece of land in the south;<span id="footnotesource5"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote5">*</a> give me also Gul′loth-ma′im.”<span id="footnotesource6"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote6">*</a> So Ca′leb gave her Upper Gul′loth and Lower Gul′loth.</p>
<p id="p6" class="p6 sb"><span id="chapter1_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16 </sup></strong>And the descendants of the Ken′ite, Moses’ father-in-law, came up from the city of palm trees with the people of Judah to the wilderness of Judah south of A′rad. They went there and settled among the people. <span id="chapter1_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17 </sup></strong>But Judah marched on with his brother Sim′e·on, and they attacked the Ca′naan·ites inhabiting Ze′phath and devoted it to destruction. So they named the city Hor′mah.<span id="footnotesource7"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote7">*</a> <span id="chapter1_verse18"></span><strong><sup>18 </sup></strong>Then Judah captured Gaz′a and its territory, Ash′ke·lon and its territory, and Ek′ron and its territory. <span id="chapter1_verse19"></span><strong><sup>19 </sup></strong>Jehovah was with Judah, and they took possession of the mountainous region, but they could not drive out the inhabitants of the plain,<span id="footnotesource8"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote8">*</a> because they had war chariots with iron scythes.<span id="footnotesource9"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote9">*</a> <span id="chapter1_verse20"></span><strong><sup>20 </sup></strong>They gave Heb′ron to Ca′leb, just as Moses had promised, and he drove out from there the three sons of A′nak.</p>
<p id="p7" class="p7 sb"><span id="page360"></span><span id="pos3086"></span><span id="chapter1_verse21"></span><strong><sup>21 </sup></strong>But the Ben′ja·min·ites did not drive out the Jeb′u·sites inhabiting Jerusalem, so the Jeb′u·sites continue dwelling with the Ben′ja·min·ites in Jerusalem down to this day.</p>
<p id="p8" class="p8 sb"><span id="pos3271"></span><span id="chapter1_verse22"></span><strong><sup>22 </sup></strong>Meantime, the house of Joseph went up against Beth′el, and Jehovah was with them. <span id="chapter1_verse23"></span><strong><sup>23 </sup></strong>The house of Joseph was spying on Beth′el (incidentally, the name of the city was previously Luz), <span id="chapter1_verse24"></span><strong><sup>24 </sup></strong>and the spies saw a man going out of the city. So they said to him: “Show us, please, the way into the city, and we will treat you kindly.”<span id="footnotesource10"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote10">*</a> <span id="chapter1_verse25"></span><strong><sup>25 </sup></strong>So the man showed them the way into the city, and they struck the city with the sword, but they let the man and all his family go free. <span id="chapter1_verse26"></span><strong><sup>26 </sup></strong>The man went to the land of the Hit′tites and built a city and named it Luz, which is its name to this day.</p>
<p id="p9" class="p9 sb"><span id="pos3876"></span><span id="chapter1_verse27"></span><strong><sup>27 </sup></strong>Ma·nas′seh did not take possession of Beth-she′an and its dependent<span id="footnotesource11"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote11">*</a> towns, Ta′a·nach and its dependent towns, the inhabitants of Dor and its dependent towns, the inhabitants of Ib′le·am and its dependent towns, and the inhabitants of Me·gid′do and its dependent towns. The Ca′naan·ites persisted in dwelling in this land. <span id="chapter1_verse28"></span><strong><sup>28 </sup></strong>When Israel grew stronger, they subjected the Ca′naan·ites to forced labor, but they did not drive them out completely.</p>
<p id="p10" class="p10 sb"><span id="chapter1_verse29"></span><strong><sup>29 </sup></strong>Nor did E′phra·im drive out the Ca′naan·ites who were dwelling in Ge′zer. The Ca′naan·ites continued to dwell among them in Ge′zer.</p>
<p id="p11" class="p11 sb"><span id="chapter1_verse30"></span><strong><sup>30 </sup></strong>Zeb′u·lun did not drive out the inhabitants of Kit′ron and the inhabitants of Na′ha·lol. The Ca′naan·ites continued to dwell among them and were subjected to forced labor.</p>
<p id="p12" class="p12 sb"><span id="chapter1_verse31"></span><strong><sup>31 </sup></strong>Ash′er did not drive out the inhabitants of Ac′co and the inhabitants of Si′don, Ah′lab, Ach′zib, Hel′bah, A′phik, and Re′hob. <span id="chapter1_verse32"></span><strong><sup>32 </sup></strong>So the Ash′er·ites continued to dwell among the Ca′naan·ites inhabiting the land, because they did not drive them out.</p>
<p id="p13" class="p13 sb"><span id="chapter1_verse33"></span><strong><sup>33 </sup></strong>Naph′ta·li did not drive out the inhabitants of Beth-she′mesh and the inhabitants of Beth-a′nath, but they continued to dwell among the Ca′naan·ites inhabiting the land. The inhabitants of Beth-she′mesh and Beth-a′nath became forced laborers for them.</p>
<p id="p14" class="p14 sb"><span id="chapter1_verse34"></span><strong><sup>34 </sup></strong>The Am′or·ites confined the Dan′ites to the mountainous region, for they would not let them come down into the plain.<span id="footnotesource12"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote12">*</a> <span id="chapter1_verse35"></span><strong><sup>35 </sup></strong>So the Am′or·ites persisted in dwelling in Mount He′res, Ai′ja·lon, and Sha·al′bim. But when the power<span id="footnotesource13"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote13">*</a> of the house of Joseph increased,<span id="footnotesource14"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote14">*</a> they were forced into hard labor. <span id="chapter1_verse36"></span><strong><sup>36 </sup></strong>The territory of the Am′or·ites was from the ascent of A·krab′bim, from Se′la upward.</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote1"><p><a href="038_JG-1.xhtml#footnotesource1">^ <span class="footnoteref">Judg. 1:1</span></a> Lit., “sons of Israel.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote2"><p><a href="038_JG-1.xhtml#footnotesource2">^ <span class="footnoteref">Judg. 1:2</span></a> Or “have given.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote3"><p><a href="038_JG-1.xhtml#footnotesource3">^ <span class="footnoteref">Judg. 1:3</span></a> Lit., “my lot.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote4"><p><a href="038_JG-1.xhtml#footnotesource4">^ <span class="footnoteref">Judg. 1:14</span></a> Or possibly, “she clapped her hands while on the donkey.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote5"><p><a href="038_JG-1.xhtml#footnotesource5">^ <span class="footnoteref">Judg. 1:15</span></a> Or “the Negeb.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote6"><p><a href="038_JG-1.xhtml#footnotesource6">^ <span class="footnoteref">Judg. 1:15</span></a> Meaning “Basins (Bowls) of Water.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote7"><p><a href="038_JG-1.xhtml#footnotesource7">^ <span class="footnoteref">Judg. 1:17</span></a> Meaning “A Devoting to Destruction.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote8"><p><a href="038_JG-1.xhtml#footnotesource8">^ <span class="footnoteref">Judg. 1:19</span></a> Or “low plain.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote9"><p><a href="038_JG-1.xhtml#footnotesource9">^ <span class="footnoteref">Judg. 1:19</span></a> Lit., “chariots of iron.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote10"><p><a href="038_JG-1.xhtml#footnotesource10">^ <span class="footnoteref">Judg. 1:24</span></a> Lit., “show you loyal love.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote11"><p><a href="038_JG-1.xhtml#footnotesource11">^ <span class="footnoteref">Judg. 1:27</span></a> Or “surrounding.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote12"><p><a href="038_JG-1.xhtml#footnotesource12">^ <span class="footnoteref">Judg. 1:34</span></a> Or “low plain.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote13"><p><a href="038_JG-1.xhtml#footnotesource13">^ <span class="footnoteref">Judg. 1:35</span></a> Lit., “hand.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote14"><p><a href="038_JG-1.xhtml#footnotesource14">^ <span class="footnoteref">Judg. 1:35</span></a> Lit., “became heavy.”</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
