<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>Judges 4</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/docclass1.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
<p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">Judges</a>  <a href="biblechapternav7.xhtml">4</a> : <a href="bibleversenav7_4.xhtml">1 - 24</a></p>
<p id="p27" class="p27 sb"><span id="pos13949"></span><span id="chapter4"></span><span id="chapter4_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>4 </strong></span>But after E′hud died, the Israelites again did what was bad in Jehovah’s eyes. <span id="chapter4_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2 </sup></strong>So Jehovah sold them into the hand of Ja′bin the king of Ca′naan, who reigned in Ha′zor. The chief of his army was Sis′e·ra, who lived in Ha·ro′sheth of the nations.<span id="footnotesource32"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote32">*</a> <span id="chapter4_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3 </sup></strong>The Israelites cried out to Jehovah, because Ja′bin<span id="footnotesource33"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote33">*</a> had 900 war chariots with iron scythes,<span id="footnotesource34"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote34">*</a> and he harshly oppressed the Israelites for 20 years.</p>
<p id="p28" class="p28 sb"><span id="pos14360"></span><span id="chapter4_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4 </sup></strong>Now Deb′o·rah, a prophetess, the wife of Lap′pi·doth, was judging Israel at that time. <span id="chapter4_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5 </sup></strong>She used to sit under Deb′o·rah’s palm tree between Ra′mah and Beth′el in the mountainous region of E′phra·im; the Israelites would go up to her for judgment. <span id="chapter4_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6 </sup></strong>She sent for Ba′rak the son of A·bin′o·am out of Ke′desh-naph′ta·li and said to him: “Has not Jehovah the God of Israel given the command? ‘Go and march to<span id="footnotesource35"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote35">*</a> Mount Ta′bor, and take 10,000 men of Naph′ta·li and Zeb′u·lun with you. <span id="chapter4_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7 </sup></strong>I will bring to you Sis′e·ra, the chief of Ja′bin’s army, along with his war chariots and his troops to the stream<span id="footnotesource36"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote36">*</a> of Ki′shon, and I will give him into your hand.’”</p>
<p id="p29" class="p29 sb"><span id="chapter4_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8 </sup></strong>At this Ba′rak said to her: “If you go with me, I will go, but if you do not go with me, I will not go.” <span id="chapter4_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9 </sup></strong>To this she said: “I will certainly go with you. However, the campaign you are going on will not bring you glory, for it will be into the hand of a woman that Jehovah will give Sis′e·ra.” Then Deb′o·rah got up and went with Ba′rak to Ke′desh. <span id="chapter4_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10 </sup></strong>Ba′rak summoned Zeb′u·lun and Naph′ta·li to Ke′desh, and 10,000 men followed his steps. Deb′o·rah also went up with him.</p>
<p id="p30" class="p30 sb"><span id="page364"></span><span id="chapter4_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11 </sup></strong>Incidentally, He′ber the Ken′ite had separated from the Ken′ites, the descendants of Ho′bab, Moses’ father-in-law, and his tent was pitched near the big tree in Za·a·nan′nim, which is at Ke′desh.</p>
<p id="p31" class="p31 sb"><span id="chapter4_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12 </sup></strong>They reported to Sis′e·ra that Ba′rak the son of A·bin′o·am had gone up to Mount Ta′bor. <span id="chapter4_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13 </sup></strong>At once Sis′e·ra assembled all his war chariots—900 chariots with iron scythes<span id="footnotesource37"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote37">*</a>—and all the troops that were with him from Ha·ro′sheth of the nations to go to the stream<span id="footnotesource38"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote38">*</a> of Ki′shon. <span id="chapter4_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14 </sup></strong>Deb′o·rah now said to Ba′rak: “Rise up, for this is the day that Jehovah will give Sis′e·ra into your hand. Is Jehovah not going out before you?” And Ba′rak descended from Mount Ta′bor with 10,000 men following him. <span id="chapter4_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15 </sup></strong>Then Jehovah threw Sis′e·ra and all his war chariots and all the army into confusion before the sword of Ba′rak. Finally Sis′e·ra got down from his chariot and fled on foot. <span id="chapter4_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16 </sup></strong>Ba′rak chased after the war chariots and the army as far as Ha·ro′sheth of the nations. So Sis′e·ra’s whole army fell by the sword; not even one remained.</p>
<p id="p32" class="p32 sb"><span id="pos16575"></span><span id="chapter4_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17 </sup></strong>But Sis′e·ra fled on foot to the tent of Ja′el the wife of He′ber the Ken′ite, for there was peace between Ja′bin the king of Ha′zor and the house of He′ber the Ken′ite. <span id="chapter4_verse18"></span><strong><sup>18 </sup></strong>Then Ja′el came out to meet Sis′e·ra and said to him: “Come in, my lord, come in here. Do not be afraid.” So he went into her tent, and she covered him with a blanket. <span id="chapter4_verse19"></span><strong><sup>19 </sup></strong>Then he said to her: “Give me, please, a little water to drink, for I am thirsty.” So she opened a skin bottle of milk and gave him a drink, after which she again covered him. <span id="chapter4_verse20"></span><strong><sup>20 </sup></strong>He told her: “Stand at the entrance of the tent, and if anybody comes and asks you, ‘Is there a man here?’ say, ‘No!’”</p>
<p id="p33" class="p33 sb"><span id="chapter4_verse21"></span><strong><sup>21 </sup></strong>But Ja′el the wife of He′ber took a tent pin and a hammer in her hand. Then while he was fast asleep and exhausted, she stealthily approached him and drove the pin through his temples and beat it into the ground, and he died.</p>
<p id="p34" class="p34 sb"><span id="chapter4_verse22"></span><strong><sup>22 </sup></strong>Ba′rak went there in pursuit of Sis′e·ra, and Ja′el now came out to meet him and said: “Come and I will show you the man you are looking for.” He went in with her and saw Sis′e·ra lying dead, with the tent pin through his temples.</p>
<p id="p35" class="p35 sb"><span id="chapter4_verse23"></span><strong><sup>23 </sup></strong>So on that day, God subdued Ja′bin the king of Ca′naan before the Israelites. <span id="chapter4_verse24"></span><strong><sup>24 </sup></strong>The hand of the Israelites came down harder and harder against Ja′bin the king of Ca′naan, until they destroyed Ja′bin the king of Ca′naan.</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote32"><p><a href="038_JG-1-split4.xhtml#footnotesource32">^ <span class="footnoteref">Judg. 4:2</span></a> Or “Harosheth-ha-goiim.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote33"><p><a href="038_JG-1-split4.xhtml#footnotesource33">^ <span class="footnoteref">Judg. 4:3</span></a> Lit., “he.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote34"><p><a href="038_JG-1-split4.xhtml#footnotesource34">^ <span class="footnoteref">Judg. 4:3</span></a> Lit., “chariots of iron.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote35"><p><a href="038_JG-1-split4.xhtml#footnotesource35">^ <span class="footnoteref">Judg. 4:6</span></a> Or “Deploy your men on.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote36"><p><a href="038_JG-1-split4.xhtml#footnotesource36">^ <span class="footnoteref">Judg. 4:7</span></a> Or “wadi.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote37"><p><a href="038_JG-1-split4.xhtml#footnotesource37">^ <span class="footnoteref">Judg. 4:13</span></a> Lit., “chariots of iron.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote38"><p><a href="038_JG-1-split4.xhtml#footnotesource38">^ <span class="footnoteref">Judg. 4:13</span></a> Or “wadi.”</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
