<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>Judges 10</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/docclass1.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
<p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">Judges</a>  <a href="biblechapternav7.xhtml">10</a> : <a href="bibleversenav7_10.xhtml">1 - 18</a></p>
<p id="p131" class="p131 sb"><span id="pos47966"></span><span id="chapter10"></span><span id="chapter10_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>10 </strong></span>After A·bim′e·lech, To′la the son of Pu′ah, the son of Do′do, a man of Is′sa·char, rose up to save Israel. He lived in Sha′mir in the mountainous region of E′phra·im. <span id="chapter10_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2 </sup></strong>He judged Israel for 23 years. Then he died and was buried in Sha′mir.</p>
<p id="p132" class="p132 sb"><span id="chapter10_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3 </sup></strong>After him Ja′ir the Gil′e·ad·ite rose up and judged Israel for 22 years. <span id="chapter10_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4 </sup></strong>He had 30 sons who rode on 30 donkeys, and they had 30 cities, which to this day are called Hav′voth-ja′ir; they are in the land of Gil′e·ad. <span id="chapter10_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5 </sup></strong>After that Ja′ir died and was buried in Ka′mon.</p>
<p id="p133" class="p133 sb"><span id="page375"></span><span id="pos48490"></span><span id="chapter10_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6 </sup></strong>Again the Israelites did what was bad in the eyes of Jehovah, and they began to serve the Ba′als, the Ash′to·reth images, the gods of A′ram,<span id="footnotesource91"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote91">*</a> the gods of Si′don, the gods of Mo′ab, the gods of the Am′mon·ites, and the gods of the Phi·lis′tines. They abandoned Jehovah and did not serve him. <span id="chapter10_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7 </sup></strong>Then Jehovah’s anger blazed against Israel, and he sold them into the hands of the Phi·lis′tines and the Am′mon·ites. <span id="chapter10_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8 </sup></strong>So they crushed and greatly oppressed the Israelites in that year—for 18 years they oppressed all the Israelites on the side of the Jordan that had been the land of the Am′or·ites in Gil′e·ad. <span id="chapter10_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9 </sup></strong>The Am′mon·ites would also cross the Jordan to fight against Judah and Benjamin and the house of E′phra·im; and Israel was greatly distressed. <span id="chapter10_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10 </sup></strong>Then the Israelites called to Jehovah for help, saying: “We have sinned against you, for we abandoned our God and served the Ba′als.”</p>
<p id="p134" class="p134 sb"><span id="chapter10_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11 </sup></strong>But Jehovah said to the Israelites: “Did I not save you from Egypt and from the Am′or·ites, the Am′mon·ites, the Phi·lis′tines, <span id="chapter10_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12 </sup></strong>the Si·do′ni·ans, Am′a·lek, and Mid′i·an when they oppressed you? When you cried out to me, I saved you out of their hand. <span id="chapter10_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13 </sup></strong>But you abandoned me and served other gods. That is why I will not save you again. <span id="chapter10_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14 </sup></strong>Go to the gods whom you have chosen and call for help. Let them save you in your time of distress.” <span id="chapter10_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15 </sup></strong>But the Israelites said to Jehovah: “We have sinned. Do to us whatever is good in your eyes. Only save us, please, this day.” <span id="chapter10_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16 </sup></strong>And they removed the foreign gods from their midst and served Jehovah, so that he could no longer tolerate<span id="footnotesource92"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote92">*</a> Israel’s suffering.</p>
<p id="p135" class="p135 sb"><span id="pos50141"></span><span id="chapter10_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17 </sup></strong>In time the Am′mon·ites were called together, and they pitched camp in Gil′e·ad. So the Israelites gathered together and pitched camp in Miz′pah. <span id="chapter10_verse18"></span><strong><sup>18 </sup></strong>The people and the princes of Gil′e·ad said to one another: “Who will take the lead in fighting against the Am′mon·ites? Let him become the chief over all the inhabitants of Gil′e·ad.”</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote91"><p><a href="038_JG-1-split10.xhtml#footnotesource91">^ <span class="footnoteref">Judg. 10:6</span></a> Or “Syria.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote92"><p><a href="038_JG-1-split10.xhtml#footnotesource92">^ <span class="footnoteref">Judg. 10:16</span></a> Or “and his soul became impatient because of.”</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
