<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>Judges 12</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/docclass1.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
<p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">Judges</a>  <a href="biblechapternav7.xhtml">12</a> : <a href="bibleversenav7_12.xhtml">1 - 15</a></p>
<p id="p149" class="p149 sb"><span id="pos57123"></span><span id="chapter12"></span><span id="chapter12_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>12 </strong></span>Then the men of E′phra·im were summoned, and they crossed over to Za′phon<span id="footnotesource99"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote99">*</a> and said to Jeph′thah: “Why did you not call us to go with you when you crossed over to fight against the Am′mon·ites? We will burn your house down with you in it.” <span id="chapter12_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2 </sup></strong>But Jeph′thah said to them: “Along with my people, I was engaged in a great conflict with the Am′mon·ites. I did call to you for help, but you did not save me from their hand. <span id="chapter12_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3 </sup></strong>When I saw that you would not save me, then I decided to risk my life<span id="footnotesource100"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote100">*</a> and go against the Am′mon·ites, and Jehovah handed them over to me. So why have you come today to fight against me?”</p>
<p id="p150" class="p150 sb"><span id="chapter12_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4 </sup></strong>Jeph′thah then gathered all the men of Gil′e·ad, and they fought E′phra·im; the men of Gil′e·ad defeated E′phra·im, who had said: “You are only fugitives from E′phra·im, you Gil′e·ad·ites in E′phra·im and Ma·nas′seh.” <span id="chapter12_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5 </sup></strong>Gil′e·ad captured the fords of the Jordan ahead of E′phra·im; and when the men of E′phra·im <span id="page378"></span>were trying to escape, they would say, “Let me cross over”; then the men of Gil′e·ad would ask each one, “Are you an E′phra·im·ite?” When he would reply, “No!” <span id="pos58223"></span><span id="chapter12_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6 </sup></strong>they would say to him, “Please say Shib′bo·leth.” But he would say, “Sib′bo·leth,” as he was unable to say the word correctly. Then they would seize him and slay him at the fords of the Jordan. So 42,000 E′phra·im·ites fell at that time.</p>
<p id="p151" class="p151 sb"><span id="chapter12_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7 </sup></strong>Jeph′thah judged Israel for six years, after which Jeph′thah the Gil′e·ad·ite died and was buried in his city in Gil′e·ad.</p>
<p id="p152" class="p152 sb"><span id="pos58592"></span><span id="chapter12_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8 </sup></strong>Ib′zan from Beth′le·hem judged Israel after him. <span id="chapter12_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9 </sup></strong>He had 30 sons and 30 daughters. He sent his daughters to marry men outside his clan, and he brought in 30 women to marry his sons. He judged Israel for seven years. <span id="chapter12_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10 </sup></strong>Then Ib′zan died and was buried in Beth′le·hem.</p>
<p id="p153" class="p153 sb"><span id="chapter12_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11 </sup></strong>After him E′lon the Ze·bu′lu·nite judged Israel; he judged Israel for ten years. <span id="chapter12_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12 </sup></strong>Then E′lon the Ze·bu′lu·nite died and was buried in Ai′ja·lon in the land of Zeb′u·lun.</p>
<p id="p154" class="p154 sb"><span id="chapter12_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13 </sup></strong>After him Ab′don the son of Hil′lel the Pir′a·thon·ite judged Israel. <span id="chapter12_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14 </sup></strong>He had 40 sons and 30 grandsons who rode on 70 donkeys. He judged Israel for eight years. <span id="chapter12_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15 </sup></strong>Then Ab′don the son of Hil′lel the Pir′a·thon·ite died and was buried in Pir′a·thon in the land of E′phra·im in the mountain of the A·mal′ek·ite.</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote99"><p><a href="038_JG-1-split12.xhtml#footnotesource99">^ <span class="footnoteref">Judg. 12:1</span></a> Or possibly, “crossed over northward.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote100"><p><a href="038_JG-1-split12.xhtml#footnotesource100">^ <span class="footnoteref">Judg. 12:3</span></a> Or “I put my soul in my hand.”</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
