<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>Judges 8</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/docclass1.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
<p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">Judges</a>  <a href="biblechapternav7.xhtml">8</a> : <a href="bibleversenav7_8.xhtml">1 - 35</a></p>
<p id="p103" class="p103 sb"><span id="pos34041"></span><span id="chapter8"></span><span id="chapter8_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>8 </strong></span>Then the men of E′phra·im said to him: “What have you done to us? Why did you not call us when you went to fight against Mid′i·an?” And they quarreled bitterly with him. <span id="chapter8_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2 </sup></strong>But he said to them: “What have I done compared with you? Are not the gleanings of E′phra·im better than the grape harvest of Abi-e′zer? <span id="chapter8_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3 </sup></strong>It was into your hand that God gave Mid′i·an’s princes O′reb and Ze′eb, and what have I done compared with you?” When he spoke this way,<span id="footnotesource72"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote72">*</a> they calmed down.<span id="footnotesource73"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote73">*</a></p>
<p id="p104" class="p104 sb"><span id="pos34520"></span><span id="chapter8_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4 </sup></strong>Gid′e·on then came to the Jordan and crossed it. He and the 300 men with him were tired, but they kept up the pursuit. <span id="chapter8_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5 </sup></strong>So he said to the men of Suc′coth: “Please give loaves of bread to the people following me, for they are tired and I am chasing after Ze′bah and Zal·mun′na, the kings of Mid′i·an.” <span id="chapter8_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6 </sup></strong>But the princes of Suc′coth said: “Are the palms of Ze′bah and Zal·mun′na already in your hand so that we should give bread to your army?” <span id="chapter8_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7 </sup></strong>At this Gid′e·on said: “Just for that, when Jehovah gives Ze′bah and Zal·mun′na into my hand, I will give you a thrashing with the thorns and the briars of the wilderness.” <span id="chapter8_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8 </sup></strong>And he went up from there to Pe·nu′el and made the same request, but the men of Pe·nu′el gave him the same answer as the men of Suc′coth. <span id="chapter8_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9 </sup></strong>So he said also to the men of Pe·nu′el: “When I return in peace, I will pull down this tower.”</p>
<p id="p105" class="p105 sb"><span id="chapter8_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10 </sup></strong>Now Ze′bah and Zal·mun′na were in Kar′kor with their armies, about 15,000 men. These were all who remained of the entire army of the Easterners, for 120,000 men armed with swords had fallen. <span id="chapter8_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11 </sup></strong>Gid′e·on continued up by the way of the tent dwellers east of No′bah and Jog′be·hah and attacked the camp, which was off guard. <span id="chapter8_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12 </sup></strong>When Ze′bah and Zal·mun′na fled, he pursued and captured the two Mid′i·an·ite kings, Ze′bah and Zal·mun′na, throwing the whole camp into a panic.</p>
<p id="p106" class="p106 sb"><span id="page371"></span><span id="chapter8_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13 </sup></strong>Gid′e·on the son of Jo′ash then returned from the war by way of the pass that goes up to He′res. <span id="chapter8_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14 </sup></strong>En route he captured and interrogated a young man from Suc′coth. So the young man wrote out for him the names of the princes and elders of Suc′coth, 77 men. <span id="chapter8_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15 </sup></strong>With that he went to the men of Suc′coth and said: “Here are Ze′bah and Zal·mun′na about whom you taunted me, saying, ‘Are the palms of Ze′bah and Zal·mun′na already in your hand so that we should give bread to your exhausted men?’” <span id="chapter8_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16 </sup></strong>Then he took the elders of the city and with thorns and briars of the wilderness, he taught the men of Suc′coth a lesson. <span id="chapter8_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17 </sup></strong>And he pulled down the tower of Pe·nu′el and killed the men of the city.</p>
<p id="p107" class="p107 sb"><span id="chapter8_verse18"></span><strong><sup>18 </sup></strong>He asked Ze′bah and Zal·mun′na: “What sort of men did you kill in Ta′bor?” To this they said: “They were like you, each one looked like the son of a king.” <span id="chapter8_verse19"></span><strong><sup>19 </sup></strong>At that he said: “They were my brothers, the sons of my mother. As surely as Jehovah lives, if you had spared their lives, I would not have to kill you.” <span id="chapter8_verse20"></span><strong><sup>20 </sup></strong>Then he said to Je′ther his firstborn: “Get up, kill them.” But the young man did not draw his sword; he was afraid, for he was still a young man. <span id="chapter8_verse21"></span><strong><sup>21 </sup></strong>So Ze′bah and Zal·mun′na said: “Get up yourself and slay us, for a man is judged by his mightiness.”<span id="footnotesource74"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote74">*</a> So Gid′e·on got up and killed Ze′bah and Zal·mun′na and took the crescent-shaped ornaments that were on the necks of their camels.</p>
<p id="p108" class="p108 sb"><span id="pos37319"></span><span id="chapter8_verse22"></span><strong><sup>22 </sup></strong>Later the men of Israel said to Gid′e·on: “Rule over us, you and your son and your grandson as well, for you saved us out of the hand of Mid′i·an.” <span id="chapter8_verse23"></span><strong><sup>23 </sup></strong>But Gid′e·on said to them: “I will not rule over you, nor will my son rule over you. Jehovah is the one who will rule over you.” <span id="chapter8_verse24"></span><strong><sup>24 </sup></strong>Gid′e·on continued: “Let me make one request of you: that each of you give me a nose ring from his spoil.” (For they had gold nose rings because they were Ish′ma·el·ites.) <span id="chapter8_verse25"></span><strong><sup>25 </sup></strong>They replied: “We will surely give them.” With that they spread out a robe and each man threw a nose ring from his spoil on it. <span id="chapter8_verse26"></span><strong><sup>26 </sup></strong>The weight of the gold nose rings that he had requested amounted to 1,700 gold shekels,<span id="footnotesource75"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote75">*</a> besides the crescent-shaped ornaments, the pendants, the purple wool garments worn by the kings of Mid′i·an, and the necklaces from the camels.</p>
<p id="p109" class="p109 sb"><span id="chapter8_verse27"></span><strong><sup>27 </sup></strong>Gid′e·on made it into an eph′od and exhibited it in his city Oph′rah; and all Israel committed spiritual prostitution with it there, and it served as a snare to Gid′e·on and to his household.</p>
<p id="p110" class="p110 sb"><span id="pos38371"></span><span id="chapter8_verse28"></span><strong><sup>28 </sup></strong>Thus Mid′i·an was subdued before the Israelites, and they did not challenge them<span id="footnotesource76"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote76">*</a> again; and the land had rest<span id="footnotesource77"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote77">*</a> for 40 years in the days of Gid′e·on.</p>
<p id="p111" class="p111 sb"><span id="chapter8_verse29"></span><strong><sup>29 </sup></strong>So Jer·ub·ba′al the son of Jo′ash returned to his home and stayed there.</p>
<p id="p112" class="p112 sb"><span id="chapter8_verse30"></span><strong><sup>30 </sup></strong>Gid′e·on became father to 70 sons,<span id="footnotesource78"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote78">*</a> for he had many wives. <span id="chapter8_verse31"></span><strong><sup>31 </sup></strong>His concubine in She′chem also bore him a son, and he named him A·bim′e·lech. <span id="chapter8_verse32"></span><strong><sup>32 </sup></strong>And Gid′e·on the son of Jo′ash died at a good old age and was buried in the tomb of Jo′ash his father in Oph′rah of the Abi-ez′rites.</p>
<p id="p113" class="p113 sb"><span id="chapter8_verse33"></span><strong><sup>33 </sup></strong>As soon as Gid′e·on died, the Israelites again committed <span id="page372"></span>spiritual prostitution with the Ba′als, and they appointed Ba′al-be′rith as their god. <span id="chapter8_verse34"></span><strong><sup>34 </sup></strong>The Israelites did not remember Jehovah their God, who had rescued them from the hand of all their enemies around them; <span id="chapter8_verse35"></span><strong><sup>35 </sup></strong>nor did they show loyal love toward the household of Jer·ub·ba′al, that is Gid′e·on, in return for all the good that he had done for Israel.</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote72"><p><a href="038_JG-1-split8.xhtml#footnotesource72">^ <span class="footnoteref">Judg. 8:3</span></a> Lit., “word.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote73"><p><a href="038_JG-1-split8.xhtml#footnotesource73">^ <span class="footnoteref">Judg. 8:3</span></a> Lit., “their spirit relaxed from against him.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote74"><p><a href="038_JG-1-split8.xhtml#footnotesource74">^ <span class="footnoteref">Judg. 8:21</span></a> Or “for as a man is, so is his strength.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote75"><p><a href="038_JG-1-split8.xhtml#footnotesource75">^ <span class="footnoteref">Judg. 8:26</span></a> A shekel equaled 11.4 g (0.367 oz t). See <a href="193_APPB.14B.xhtml">App. B14</a>.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote76"><p><a href="038_JG-1-split8.xhtml#footnotesource76">^ <span class="footnoteref">Judg. 8:28</span></a> Lit., “did not lift up their head.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote77"><p><a href="038_JG-1-split8.xhtml#footnotesource77">^ <span class="footnoteref">Judg. 8:28</span></a> Or “peace.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote78"><p><a href="038_JG-1-split8.xhtml#footnotesource78">^ <span class="footnoteref">Judg. 8:30</span></a> Lit., “had 70 sons who came out from his thigh.”</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
