<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>Judges 11</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/docclass1.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
<p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">Judges</a>  <a href="biblechapternav7.xhtml">11</a> : <a href="bibleversenav7_11.xhtml">1 - 40</a></p>
<p id="p136" class="p136 sb"><span id="pos50487"></span><span id="chapter11"></span><span id="chapter11_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>11 </strong></span>Now Jeph′thah the Gil′e·ad·ite was a mighty warrior; he was the son of a prostitute, and Gil′e·ad was Jeph′thah’s father. <span id="chapter11_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2 </sup></strong>But Gil′e·ad’s wife also bore him sons. When the sons of his wife grew up, they drove Jeph′thah out and said to him: “You will have no inheritance in our father’s household, for you are the son of another woman.” <span id="chapter11_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3 </sup></strong>So Jeph′thah fled from his brothers and settled in the land of Tob. And idle men joined company with Jeph′thah, and they followed him.</p>
<p id="p137" class="p137 sb"><span id="chapter11_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4 </sup></strong>After a while, the Am′mon·ites fought against Israel. <span id="chapter11_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5 </sup></strong>And when the Am′mon·ites fought against Israel, the elders of Gil′e·ad immediately went to bring Jeph′thah back from the land of Tob. <span id="chapter11_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6 </sup></strong>They said to Jeph′thah: “Come and serve as our commander, so that we can fight against the Am′mon·ites.” <span id="chapter11_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7 </sup></strong>But Jeph′thah said to the elders of Gil′e·ad: “Was it not you who hated me so much that you drove me out of my father’s house? Why have you come to me now when you are in distress?” <span id="chapter11_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8 </sup></strong>At this the elders of Gil′e·ad said to Jeph′thah: “That is why now we have returned to you. If you go with us and fight against the Am′mon·ites, you will become our leader over all the inhabitants of Gil′e·ad.” <span id="chapter11_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9 </sup></strong>So Jeph′thah said to the elders of Gil′e·ad: “If you bring me back to fight against the Am′mon·ites and Jehovah defeats them for <span id="page376"></span>me, then I will indeed become your leader!” <span id="chapter11_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10 </sup></strong>The elders of Gil′e·ad said to Jeph′thah: “Let Jehovah be the witness<span id="footnotesource93"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote93">*</a> between us if we do not do as you say.” <span id="chapter11_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11 </sup></strong>So Jeph′thah went with the elders of Gil′e·ad, and the people made him their leader and commander. And Jeph′thah repeated all his words before Jehovah in Miz′pah.</p>
<p id="p138" class="p138 sb"><span id="pos52146"></span><span id="chapter11_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12 </sup></strong>Jeph′thah then sent messengers to the king of the Am′mon·ites, saying: “What do you have against me<span id="footnotesource94"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote94">*</a> that you have come to attack my land?” <span id="chapter11_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13 </sup></strong>So the king of the Am′mon·ites said to the messengers of Jeph′thah: “It is because Israel took my land when they came up out of Egypt, from the Ar′non to the Jab′bok and as far as the Jordan. Now return it peaceably.” <span id="chapter11_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14 </sup></strong>But Jeph′thah sent messengers back to the king of the Am′mon·ites <span id="chapter11_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15 </sup></strong>to say to him:</p>
<p id="p139" class="p139 sb">“This is what Jeph′thah says: ‘Israel did not take the land of the Mo′ab·ites and the land of the Am′mon·ites, <span id="chapter11_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16 </sup></strong>for when they came up out of Egypt, Israel walked through the wilderness as far as the Red Sea and came to Ka′desh. <span id="chapter11_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17 </sup></strong>Then Israel sent messengers to the king of E′dom, saying: “Please let us pass through your land,” but the king of E′dom did not listen. Also to the king of Mo′ab they sent word, but he did not consent. So Israel kept dwelling in Ka′desh. <span id="chapter11_verse18"></span><strong><sup>18 </sup></strong>When they walked through the wilderness, they bypassed the land of E′dom and the land of Mo′ab. They traveled east of the land of Mo′ab and camped in the region of the Ar′non; they did not come within the boundary of Mo′ab, for the Ar′non was the boundary of Mo′ab.</p>
<p id="p140" class="p140 sb"><span id="chapter11_verse19"></span><strong><sup>19 </sup></strong>“‘After that Israel sent messengers to Si′hon king of the Am′or·ites, king of Hesh′bon, and Israel said to him: “Please let us pass through your land to our own place.” <span id="chapter11_verse20"></span><strong><sup>20 </sup></strong>But Si′hon did not trust Israel to cross through his territory, so Si′hon gathered all his people together and encamped in Ja′haz and fought against Israel. <span id="chapter11_verse21"></span><strong><sup>21 </sup></strong>At this Jehovah the God of Israel gave Si′hon and all his people into Israel’s hand, so that they defeated them and Israel took possession of all the land of the Am′or·ites, the inhabitants of that land. <span id="chapter11_verse22"></span><strong><sup>22 </sup></strong>Thus they took possession of all the territory of the Am′or·ites from the Ar′non to the Jab′bok and from the wilderness to the Jordan.</p>
<p id="p141" class="p141 sb"><span id="chapter11_verse23"></span><strong><sup>23 </sup></strong>“‘It was Jehovah the God of Israel who drove out the Am′or·ites from before his people Israel, and now would you drive them out? <span id="chapter11_verse24"></span><strong><sup>24 </sup></strong>Do you not possess whatever your god Che′mosh gives you to possess? So everyone whom Jehovah our God has driven out from before us is the one we will drive out. <span id="chapter11_verse25"></span><strong><sup>25 </sup></strong>Now are you any better than Ba′lak the son of Zip′por, the king of Mo′ab? Did he ever contend with Israel, or did he ever fight against them? <span id="chapter11_verse26"></span><strong><sup>26 </sup></strong>While Israel was dwelling in Hesh′bon and its dependent<span id="footnotesource95"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote95">*</a> towns and in A·ro′er and its dependent towns and in all the cities that are by the banks of the Ar′non for 300 years, why did you never try to take them back during that time? <span id="chapter11_verse27"></span><strong><sup>27 </sup></strong>I have not sinned against you, but you are wrong to attack me. Let Jehovah the Judge be judge today between the people of Israel and the people of Am′mon.’”</p>
<p id="p142" class="p142 sb"><span id="chapter11_verse28"></span><strong><sup>28 </sup></strong>But the king of the Am′mon·ites would not listen to the <span id="page377"></span>message that Jeph′thah sent to him.</p>
<p id="p143" class="p143 sb"><span id="pos55042"></span><span id="chapter11_verse29"></span><strong><sup>29 </sup></strong>Jehovah’s spirit came upon Jeph′thah, and he passed through Gil′e·ad and Ma·nas′seh to go to Miz′peh of Gil′e·ad, and from Miz′peh of Gil′e·ad he continued on to the Am′mon·ites.</p>
<p id="p144" class="p144 sb"><span id="chapter11_verse30"></span><strong><sup>30 </sup></strong>Then Jeph′thah made a vow to Jehovah and said: “If you give the Am′mon·ites into my hand, <span id="chapter11_verse31"></span><strong><sup>31 </sup></strong>then whoever comes out of the door of my house to meet me when I return in peace from the Am′mon·ites will become Jehovah’s, and I will offer that one up as a burnt offering.”</p>
<p id="p145" class="p145 sb"><span id="chapter11_verse32"></span><strong><sup>32 </sup></strong>So Jeph′thah went to fight against the Am′mon·ites, and Jehovah gave them into his hand. <span id="chapter11_verse33"></span><strong><sup>33 </sup></strong>He struck them down with a very great slaughter from A·ro′er all the way to Min′nith—20 cities—and as far as A′bel-ker′a·mim. Thus the Am′mon·ites were subdued before the Israelites.</p>
<p id="p146" class="p146 sb"><span id="chapter11_verse34"></span><strong><sup>34 </sup></strong>Finally Jeph′thah came to his home in Miz′pah, and look! his daughter was coming out to meet him, playing the tambourine and dancing! Now she was his one and only child. Besides her, he had neither son nor daughter. <span id="chapter11_verse35"></span><strong><sup>35 </sup></strong>When he saw her, he ripped his garments and said: “Oh no, my daughter! You have broken my heart,<span id="footnotesource96"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote96">*</a> for you have become the one I have banished. Now I have opened my mouth to Jehovah, and I am unable to turn back.”</p>
<p id="p147" class="p147 sb"><span id="chapter11_verse36"></span><strong><sup>36 </sup></strong>But she said to him: “My father, if you have opened your mouth to Jehovah, do to me as you have promised, since Jehovah has executed vengeance for you upon your enemies, the Am′mon·ites.” <span id="chapter11_verse37"></span><strong><sup>37 </sup></strong>She then said to her father: “Let this be done for me: Let me be alone for two months, and let me go away into the mountains, and let me weep over my virginity with my female companions.”<span id="footnotesource97"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote97">*</a></p>
<p id="p148" class="p148 sb"><span id="pos56633"></span><span id="chapter11_verse38"></span><strong><sup>38 </sup></strong>At this he said: “Go!” So he sent her away for two months, and she went to the mountains with her companions to weep over her virginity. <span id="chapter11_verse39"></span><strong><sup>39 </sup></strong>At the end of two months, she returned to her father, after which he carried out the vow he had made regarding her. She never had relations with a man. And it became a custom<span id="footnotesource98"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote98">*</a> in Israel: <span id="chapter11_verse40"></span><strong><sup>40 </sup></strong>From year to year, the young women of Israel would go to give commendation to the daughter of Jeph′thah the Gil′e·ad·ite four days in the year.</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote93"><p><a href="038_JG-1-split11.xhtml#footnotesource93">^ <span class="footnoteref">Judg. 11:10</span></a> Lit., “the one who hears.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote94"><p><a href="038_JG-1-split11.xhtml#footnotesource94">^ <span class="footnoteref">Judg. 11:12</span></a> Lit., “What to me and to you?”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote95"><p><a href="038_JG-1-split11.xhtml#footnotesource95">^ <span class="footnoteref">Judg. 11:26</span></a> Or “surrounding.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote96"><p><a href="038_JG-1-split11.xhtml#footnotesource96">^ <span class="footnoteref">Judg. 11:35</span></a> Lit., “You brought me very low.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote97"><p><a href="038_JG-1-split11.xhtml#footnotesource97">^ <span class="footnoteref">Judg. 11:37</span></a> Or “weep with my friends because I will never marry.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote98"><p><a href="038_JG-1-split11.xhtml#footnotesource98">^ <span class="footnoteref">Judg. 11:39</span></a> Or “regulation.”</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
