<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>Ruth 1</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/docclass1.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
<p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">Ruth</a>  <a href="biblechapternav8.xhtml">1</a> : <a href="bibleversenav8_1.xhtml">1 - 22</a></p>
<header>
<h1 id="p1"><span id="page391"></span><strong>RUTH</strong></h1>
</header>
<p id="p2" class="p2 sb"><span id="pos43"></span><span id="chapter1"></span><span id="chapter1_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>1 </strong></span>Now in the days when the judges administered justice,<span id="footnotesource1"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote1">*</a> a famine occurred in the land; and a man went from Beth′le·hem in Judah to reside as a foreigner in the fields<span id="footnotesource2"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote2">*</a> of Mo′ab, he along with his wife and his two sons. <span id="chapter1_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2 </sup></strong>The man’s name was E·lim′e·lech,<span id="footnotesource3"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote3">*</a> his wife’s <span id="page392"></span>name was Na·o′mi,<span id="footnotesource4"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote4">*</a> and the names of his two sons were Mah′lon<span id="footnotesource5"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote5">*</a> and Chil′i·on.<span id="footnotesource6"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote6">*</a> They were Eph′rath·ites from Beth′le·hem in Judah. And they came to the fields of Mo′ab and remained there.</p>
<p id="p3" class="p3 sb"><span id="pos506"></span><span id="chapter1_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3 </sup></strong>After some time E·lim′e·lech, Na·o′mi’s husband, died, and she was left with her two sons. <span id="chapter1_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4 </sup></strong>The men later married Mo′ab·ite women; one was named Or′pah, and the other was named Ruth. They remained there for about ten years. <span id="chapter1_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5 </sup></strong>Then the two sons, Mah′lon and Chil′i·on, also died, and the woman was left without her two children and her husband. <span id="chapter1_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6 </sup></strong>So she started out with her daughters-in-law to return from the fields of Mo′ab, for she had heard in Mo′ab that Jehovah had turned his attention to his people by giving them food.<span id="footnotesource7"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote7">*</a></p>
<p id="p4" class="p4 sb"><span id="pos1045"></span><span id="chapter1_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7 </sup></strong>She left the place where she had been living with both of her daughters-in-law. As they were walking on the road to return to the land of Judah, <span id="chapter1_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8 </sup></strong>Na·o′mi said to both of her daughters-in-law: “Go, return, each of you to your mother’s home. May Jehovah show loyal love to you, just as you have shown it to the men who have died and to me. <span id="chapter1_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9 </sup></strong>May Jehovah grant<span id="footnotesource8"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote8">*</a> that each of you finds security<span id="footnotesource9"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote9">*</a> in the home of your husband.” Then she kissed them, and they wept loudly. <span id="chapter1_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10 </sup></strong>They kept saying to her: “No, but we will go with you to your people.” <span id="chapter1_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11 </sup></strong>But Na·o′mi said: “Return, my daughters. Why should you go with me? Can I still give birth to sons who could become your husbands? <span id="chapter1_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12 </sup></strong>Return, my daughters. Go, for I have grown too old to marry. Even if I could hope to find a husband tonight and could also bear sons, <span id="chapter1_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13 </sup></strong>would you keep waiting for them until they could grow up? Would you refrain from getting remarried for their sakes? No, my daughters, I feel very bitter for you, because the hand of Jehovah has turned against me.”</p>
<p id="p5" class="p5 sb"><span id="chapter1_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14 </sup></strong>Again they wept loudly, after which Or′pah kissed her mother-in-law and departed. But Ruth stuck with her. <span id="chapter1_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15 </sup></strong>So Na·o′mi said: “Look! Your widowed sister-in-law has returned to her people and her gods. Return with your sister-in-law.”</p>
<p id="p6" class="p6 sb"><span id="chapter1_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16 </sup></strong>But Ruth said: “Do not plead with me to abandon you, to turn back from accompanying you; for where you go I will go, and where you spend the night, I will spend the night. Your people will be my people, and your God my God. <span id="chapter1_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17 </sup></strong>Where you die I will die, and there I will be buried. May Jehovah do so to me and add to it if anything but death should separate me from you.”</p>
<p id="p7" class="p7 sb"><span id="pos2729"></span><span id="chapter1_verse18"></span><strong><sup>18 </sup></strong>When Na·o′mi saw that Ruth insisted on going with her, she stopped trying to convince her. <span id="chapter1_verse19"></span><strong><sup>19 </sup></strong>And they both continued on their way until they came to Beth′le·hem. As soon as they arrived in Beth′le·hem, the whole city became stirred up over them, and women were saying: “Is this Na·o′mi?” <span id="chapter1_verse20"></span><strong><sup>20 </sup></strong>She would say to the women: “Do not call me Na·o′mi.<span id="footnotesource10"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote10">*</a> Call me Ma′ra,<span id="footnotesource11"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote11">*</a> for the Almighty has made life very bitter for me. <span id="chapter1_verse21"></span><strong><sup>21 </sup></strong>I was full when I went, but Jehovah made me return empty-handed. Why should you call me Na·o′mi, when it is Jehovah who opposed me and the Almighty who caused me calamity?”</p>
<p id="p8" class="p8 sb"><span id="page393"></span><span id="chapter1_verse22"></span><strong><sup>22 </sup></strong>This is how Na·o′mi returned from the fields of Mo′ab, along with her Mo′ab·ite daughter-in-law Ruth. They came to Beth′le·hem at the beginning of the barley harvest.</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote1"><p><a href="040_RU-1.xhtml#footnotesource1">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ruth 1:1</span></a> Or “ruled.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote2"><p><a href="040_RU-1.xhtml#footnotesource2">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ruth 1:1</span></a> Or “region.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote3"><p><a href="040_RU-1.xhtml#footnotesource3">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ruth 1:2</span></a> Meaning “My God Is King.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote4"><p><a href="040_RU-1.xhtml#footnotesource4">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ruth 1:2</span></a> Meaning “My Pleasantness.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote5"><p><a href="040_RU-1.xhtml#footnotesource5">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ruth 1:2</span></a> Possibly from a Hebrew word meaning “grow weak; fall sick.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote6"><p><a href="040_RU-1.xhtml#footnotesource6">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ruth 1:2</span></a> Meaning “One Failing; One Coming to an End.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote7"><p><a href="040_RU-1.xhtml#footnotesource7">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ruth 1:6</span></a> Lit., “bread.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote8"><p><a href="040_RU-1.xhtml#footnotesource8">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ruth 1:9</span></a> Or “make a gift.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote9"><p><a href="040_RU-1.xhtml#footnotesource9">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ruth 1:9</span></a> Lit., “a resting-place.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote10"><p><a href="040_RU-1.xhtml#footnotesource10">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ruth 1:20</span></a> Meaning “My Pleasantness.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote11"><p><a href="040_RU-1.xhtml#footnotesource11">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ruth 1:20</span></a> Meaning “Bitter.”</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
