<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>1 Samuel 29</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/docclass1.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
<p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">1 Samuel</a>  <a href="biblechapternav9.xhtml">29</a> : <a href="bibleversenav9_29.xhtml">1 - 11</a></p>
<p id="p212" class="p212 sb"><span id="pos125701"></span><span id="chapter29"></span><span id="chapter29_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>29 </strong></span>The Phi·lis′tines assembled all their armies at A′phek, while the Israelites were camping by the spring in Jez′re·el. <span id="chapter29_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2 </sup></strong>And the lords of the Phi·lis′tines were passing by with their hundreds and their thousands, and David and his men were marching at the rear with A′chish. <span id="chapter29_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3 </sup></strong>But the princes of the Phi·lis′tines said: “Why are these Hebrews here?” A′chish replied to the princes of the Phi·lis′tines: “This is David, the servant of King Saul of Israel, who has been with me for a year or more. I have not found any fault in him from the day he deserted to me until today.” <span id="chapter29_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4 </sup></strong>But the princes of the Phi·lis′tines became indignant at him, and they said to him: “Make the man go back. Let him return to the place where you assigned him. Do not let him go down with us into the battle, so that he will not turn against us during the battle. For what better way to put himself in favor with his lord than with the heads of our men? <span id="chapter29_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5 </sup></strong>Is this not the David about whom they sang when they danced, saying:</p>
<p id="p213" class="p213 sz">‘Saul has struck down his thousands,</p>
<p class="p213 sz">And David his tens of thousands’?”</p>
<p id="p214" class="p214 sb"><span id="chapter29_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6 </sup></strong>So A′chish summoned David and said to him: “As surely as Jehovah is living, you are upright, and I am pleased to have you go on the campaign with my army, for I have not found any fault with you from the day you came to me until today. But the lords do not trust you. <span id="chapter29_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7 </sup></strong>So return in peace, and do not do anything to displease the lords of the Phi·lis′tines.” <span id="chapter29_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8 </sup></strong>However, David said to A′chish: “Why, what have I done? What fault have you found in your servant from the day that I came to you until today? Why should I not come with you and fight against the enemies of my lord the king?” <span id="chapter29_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9 </sup></strong>A′chish answered David: “From my standpoint, you have been as good as an angel of God. But the princes of the Phi·lis′tines have said, ‘Do not let him go up with us into the battle.’ <span id="chapter29_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10 </sup></strong>Now get up early in the morning with the servants of your lord who came with you; rise up and leave early in the morning as soon as it is light.”</p>
<p id="p215" class="p215 sb"><span id="chapter29_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11 </sup></strong>So David and his men rose up early in the morning to return to the land of the Phi·lis′tines, and the Phi·lis′tines went up to Jez′re·el.</p>
</body>
</html>
