<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>1 Samuel 7</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/docclass1.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
<p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">1 Samuel</a>  <a href="biblechapternav9.xhtml">7</a> : <a href="bibleversenav9_7.xhtml">1 - 17</a></p>
<p id="p50" class="p50 sb"><span id="pos23779"></span><span id="chapter7"></span><span id="chapter7_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>7 </strong></span>So the men of Kir′i·ath-je′a·rim came and took the Ark of Jehovah up into the house of A·bin′a·dab on the hill, and they sanctified his son El·e·a′zar to guard the Ark of Jehovah.</p>
<p id="p51" class="p51 sb"><span id="pos23962"></span><span id="chapter7_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2 </sup></strong>A long time elapsed, 20 years in all, from the day of the Ark’s coming to Kir′i·ath-je′a·rim, and all the house of Israel began to seek<span id="footnotesource45"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote45">*</a> after Jehovah. <span id="chapter7_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3 </sup></strong>Samuel then said to all the house of Israel: “If you are returning to Jehovah with all your heart, put away the foreign gods and the Ash′to·reth images from among you, and direct your heart unswervingly to Jehovah and serve only him, and he will rescue you from the hand of the Phi·lis′tines.” <span id="chapter7_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4 </sup></strong>At that the Israelites got rid of the Ba′als and the Ash′to·reth images and served only Jehovah.</p>
<p id="p52" class="p52 sb"><span id="chapter7_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5 </sup></strong>Then Samuel said: “Gather all Israel together at Miz′pah, and I will pray to Jehovah in your behalf.” <span id="chapter7_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6 </sup></strong>So they gathered together at Miz′pah, and they drew water and poured it out before Jehovah and kept a fast on that day. There they said: “We have sinned against Jehovah.” And Samuel began serving as judge over the Israelites in Miz′pah.</p>
<p id="p53" class="p53 sb"><span id="page406"></span><span id="pos24876"></span><span id="chapter7_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7 </sup></strong>When the Phi·lis′tines heard that the Israelites had gathered together at Miz′pah, the lords of the Phi·lis′tines went up against Israel. When the Israelites heard of it, they were afraid because of the Phi·lis′tines. <span id="chapter7_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8 </sup></strong>So the Israelites said to Samuel: “Do not stop calling to Jehovah our God to help us and to save us from the hand of the Phi·lis′tines.” <span id="chapter7_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9 </sup></strong>Then Samuel took a suckling lamb and offered it up as a whole burnt offering to Jehovah; and Samuel called to Jehovah for help in behalf of Israel, and Jehovah answered him. <span id="chapter7_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10 </sup></strong>As Samuel was offering up the burnt offering, the Phi·lis′tines advanced for battle against Israel. Jehovah now caused it to thunder loudly on that day against the Phi·lis′tines, and He threw them into confusion, and they were defeated before Israel. <span id="chapter7_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11 </sup></strong>At that the men of Israel went out from Miz′pah and pursued the Phi·lis′tines, striking them down as far as south of Beth-car. <span id="chapter7_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12 </sup></strong>Then Samuel took a stone and set it between Miz′pah and Jesh′a·nah and named it Eb·en·e′zer,<span id="footnotesource46"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote46">*</a> for he said: “Until now Jehovah has helped us.” <span id="chapter7_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13 </sup></strong>Thus the Phi·lis′tines were subdued, and they did not come again into the territory of Israel; and the hand of Jehovah continued against the Phi·lis′tines all the days of Samuel. <span id="chapter7_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14 </sup></strong>Also, the cities that the Phi·lis′tines had taken from Israel were returned to Israel, from Ek′ron to Gath, and Israel recovered their territory from the hand of the Phi·lis′tines.</p>
<p id="p54" class="p54 sb">There was also peace between Israel and the Am′or·ites.</p>
<p id="p55" class="p55 sb"><span id="pos26400"></span><span id="chapter7_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15 </sup></strong>Samuel kept on judging Israel throughout his life. <span id="chapter7_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16 </sup></strong>Each year he traveled in a circuit to Beth′el, Gil′gal, and Miz′pah, and he judged Israel in all these places. <span id="chapter7_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17 </sup></strong>But he would return to Ra′mah, because his house was there, and there he also judged Israel. He built an altar there to Jehovah.</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote45"><p><a href="042_1SA-.1-split7.xhtml#footnotesource45">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Sam. 7:2</span></a> Or “mourn.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote46"><p><a href="042_1SA-.1-split7.xhtml#footnotesource46">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Sam. 7:12</span></a> Meaning “Stone of Help.”</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
