<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>1 Samuel 1</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/docclass1.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
<p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">1 Samuel</a>  <a href="biblechapternav9.xhtml">1</a> : <a href="bibleversenav9_1.xhtml">1 - 28</a></p>
<header>
<h1 id="p1"><span id="page397"></span><strong>THE FIRST OF SAMUEL</strong></h1>
</header>
<p id="p2" class="p2 sb"><span id="pos70"></span><span id="chapter1"></span><span id="chapter1_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>1 </strong></span>Now there was a man of Ra·math·a′im-zo′phim<span id="footnotesource1"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote1">*</a> of the mountainous region of E′phra·im whose name was El·ka′nah, the son of Je·ro′ham, the son of E·li′hu, the son of To′hu, the son of Zuph, an E′phra·im·ite. <span id="chapter1_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2 </sup></strong>He had two wives; one was named Han′nah, and the other was named Pe·nin′nah. Pe·nin′nah had children, but Han′nah had no children. <span id="chapter1_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3 </sup></strong>That man went up from his city year after year to worship<span id="footnotesource2"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote2">*</a> and to sacrifice to Jehovah of armies in Shi′loh. That is where the two sons of E′li, Hoph′ni and Phin′e·has, served as priests to Jehovah.</p>
<p id="p3" class="p3 sb"><span id="chapter1_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4 </sup></strong>One day when El·ka′nah offered a sacrifice, he gave portions to his wife Pe·nin′nah as well as to all her sons and <span id="page398"></span>her daughters, <span id="chapter1_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5 </sup></strong>but to Han′nah he gave a special portion, because Han′nah was the one he loved; but Jehovah had not given her children.<span id="footnotesource3"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote3">*</a> <span id="chapter1_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6 </sup></strong>Moreover, her rival wife taunted her relentlessly in order to upset her because Jehovah had not given her children. <span id="chapter1_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7 </sup></strong>That is what she would do year after year; whenever Han′nah went up to the house of Jehovah, her rival would taunt her so much that she would weep and not eat. <span id="chapter1_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8 </sup></strong>But her husband El·ka′nah said to her: “Han′nah, why do you weep, and why do you not eat, and why are you so sad?<span id="footnotesource4"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote4">*</a> Am I not better to you than ten sons?”</p>
<p id="p4" class="p4 sb"><span id="pos1329"></span><span id="chapter1_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9 </sup></strong>Then Han′nah got up after they had finished eating and drinking in Shi′loh. At the time, E′li the priest was sitting on the seat by the doorpost of the temple<span id="footnotesource5"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote5">*</a> of Jehovah. <span id="chapter1_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10 </sup></strong>Han′nah was extremely bitter,<span id="footnotesource6"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote6">*</a> and she began to pray to Jehovah and to weep uncontrollably. <span id="chapter1_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11 </sup></strong>And she made this vow: “O Jehovah of armies, if you look upon the affliction of your servant and remember me and you do not forget your servant and give to your servant a male child, I will give him to Jehovah all the days of his life, and no razor will touch his head.”</p>
<p id="p5" class="p5 sb"><span id="chapter1_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12 </sup></strong>While she prayed for a long time before Jehovah, E′li was watching her mouth. <span id="chapter1_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13 </sup></strong>Han′nah was speaking in her heart, only her lips were trembling, but her voice was not heard. So E′li thought she was drunk. <span id="chapter1_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14 </sup></strong>E′li said to her: “How long will you stay drunk? Stop drinking your wine.” <span id="chapter1_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15 </sup></strong>At this Han′nah answered: “No, my lord! I am a woman under great stress;<span id="footnotesource7"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote7">*</a> I have not drunk wine or anything alcoholic, but I am pouring out my soul<span id="footnotesource8"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote8">*</a> before Jehovah. <span id="chapter1_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16 </sup></strong>Do not take your servant for a worthless woman, for I have been speaking until now out of my great anguish and distress.” <span id="chapter1_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17 </sup></strong>Then E′li answered: “Go in peace, and may the God of Israel grant your petition that you have asked of him.” <span id="chapter1_verse18"></span><strong><sup>18 </sup></strong>To this she said: “Let your servant find favor in your eyes.” And the woman went on her way and ate, and her face was no longer downcast.</p>
<p id="p6" class="p6 sb"><span id="pos2745"></span><span id="chapter1_verse19"></span><strong><sup>19 </sup></strong>Then they got up early in the morning and bowed before Jehovah, after which they returned to their house in Ra′mah. El·ka′nah had sexual relations with his wife Han′nah, and Jehovah gave attention to<span id="footnotesource9"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote9">*</a> her. <span id="chapter1_verse20"></span><strong><sup>20 </sup></strong>Within a year<span id="footnotesource10"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote10">*</a> Han′nah became pregnant and gave birth to a son and named him Samuel,<span id="footnotesource11"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote11">*</a> because, as she said, “it is from Jehovah that I have asked him.”</p>
<p id="p7" class="p7 sb"><span id="chapter1_verse21"></span><strong><sup>21 </sup></strong>In time El·ka′nah went up with all his household to offer the yearly sacrifice to Jehovah and to present his vow offering. <span id="chapter1_verse22"></span><strong><sup>22 </sup></strong>But Han′nah did not go up, for she said to her husband: “As soon as the boy is weaned, I will bring him; then he will appear before Jehovah and remain there from then on.” <span id="chapter1_verse23"></span><strong><sup>23 </sup></strong>El·ka′nah her husband then said to her: “Do what you think is best.<span id="footnotesource12"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote12">*</a> Stay at home until you wean him. May Jehovah carry out what you have said.” So the woman stayed at home and nursed her son until she weaned him.</p>
<p id="p8" class="p8 sb"><span id="chapter1_verse24"></span><strong><sup>24 </sup></strong>As soon as she had weaned him, she took him <span id="page399"></span>up to Shi′loh, along with a three-year-old bull, one e′phah<span id="footnotesource13"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote13">*</a> of flour, and a large jar of wine, and she came to the house of Jehovah in Shi′loh and brought the young boy with her. <span id="chapter1_verse25"></span><strong><sup>25 </sup></strong>Then they slaughtered the bull and brought the boy to E′li. <span id="chapter1_verse26"></span><strong><sup>26 </sup></strong>With that she said: “Pardon me, my lord! As surely as you live,<span id="footnotesource14"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote14">*</a> my lord, I am the woman who was standing with you in this place to pray to Jehovah. <span id="chapter1_verse27"></span><strong><sup>27 </sup></strong>It was for this boy that I prayed, and Jehovah granted my petition that I asked of him. <span id="chapter1_verse28"></span><strong><sup>28 </sup></strong>I, in turn, now lend him to Jehovah. For all his days, he is lent to Jehovah.”</p>
<p id="p9" class="p9 sb">And he<span id="footnotesource15"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote15">*</a> bowed down there to Jehovah.</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote1"><p><a href="042_1SA-.1.xhtml#footnotesource1">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Sam. 1:1</span></a> Or “of Ramah, a Zuphite.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote2"><p><a href="042_1SA-.1.xhtml#footnotesource2">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Sam. 1:3</span></a> Or “bow down.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote3"><p><a href="042_1SA-.1.xhtml#footnotesource3">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Sam. 1:5</span></a> Lit., “had closed her womb.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote4"><p><a href="042_1SA-.1.xhtml#footnotesource4">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Sam. 1:8</span></a> Or “why does your heart feel bad?”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote5"><p><a href="042_1SA-.1.xhtml#footnotesource5">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Sam. 1:9</span></a> That is, the tabernacle.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote6"><p><a href="042_1SA-.1.xhtml#footnotesource6">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Sam. 1:10</span></a> Or “bitter of soul.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote7"><p><a href="042_1SA-.1.xhtml#footnotesource7">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Sam. 1:15</span></a> Or “a woman hard-pressed in spirit.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote8"><p><a href="042_1SA-.1.xhtml#footnotesource8">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Sam. 1:15</span></a> See Glossary.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote9"><p><a href="042_1SA-.1.xhtml#footnotesource9">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Sam. 1:19</span></a> Lit., “remembered.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote10"><p><a href="042_1SA-.1.xhtml#footnotesource10">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Sam. 1:20</span></a> Or possibly, “In due time.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote11"><p><a href="042_1SA-.1.xhtml#footnotesource11">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Sam. 1:20</span></a> Meaning “Name of God.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote12"><p><a href="042_1SA-.1.xhtml#footnotesource12">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Sam. 1:23</span></a> Lit., “what is good in your eyes.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote13"><p><a href="042_1SA-.1.xhtml#footnotesource13">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Sam. 1:24</span></a> About 22 L (20 dry qt). See <a href="192_APPB.14A.xhtml">App. B14</a>.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote14"><p><a href="042_1SA-.1.xhtml#footnotesource14">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Sam. 1:26</span></a> Or “By the life of your soul.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote15"><p><a href="042_1SA-.1.xhtml#footnotesource15">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Sam. 1:28</span></a> Evidently referring to Elkanah.</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
