<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>2 Samuel 13</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/docclass1.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
<p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">2 Samuel</a>  <a href="biblechapternav10.xhtml">13</a> : <a href="bibleversenav10_13.xhtml">1 - 39</a></p>
<p id="p95" class="p95 sb"><span id="pos47195"></span><span id="chapter13"></span><span id="chapter13_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>13 </strong></span>Now David’s son Ab′sa·lom had a beautiful sister named Ta′mar, and David’s son Am′non fell in love with her. <span id="chapter13_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2 </sup></strong>Am′non was so distressed that he became sick because of his sister Ta′mar, for she was a virgin and it seemed impossible for Am′non to do anything to her. <span id="chapter13_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3 </sup></strong>Now Am′non had a companion named Je·hon′a·dab, the son of Shim′e·ah, David’s brother; and Je·hon′a·dab was a very clever man. <span id="chapter13_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4 </sup></strong>So he said to him: “Why are you, the king’s son, so depressed every morning? Why not tell me?” Am′non replied to him: “I am in love with Ta′mar, the sister of my brother Ab′sa·lom.” <span id="chapter13_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5 </sup></strong>Je·hon′a·dab replied to him: “Lie down on your bed and pretend to be sick. When your father comes to see you, say to him, ‘Please, let my sister Ta′mar come and serve me some food. If she prepares the food given to the sick<span id="footnotesource76"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote76">*</a> before my eyes, I will eat it from her hand.’”</p>
<p id="p96" class="p96 sb"><span id="chapter13_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6 </sup></strong>So Am′non lay down and pretended to be sick, and the king came in to see him. Then Am′non said to the king: “Please, let my sister Ta′mar come in and bake two heart-shaped cakes before my eyes so that I may take food from her hand.” <span id="chapter13_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7 </sup></strong>At that David sent a message to Ta′mar at the house, saying: “Please go to the house of your brother Am′non and prepare food<span id="footnotesource77"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote77">*</a> for him.” <span id="chapter13_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8 </sup></strong>So Ta′mar went to the house of her brother Am′non, where he was lying down. She took the dough and kneaded it into cakes before his eyes and cooked the cakes. <span id="chapter13_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9 </sup></strong>Then she took the pan and served him. But Am′non refused to eat and said: “Have everybody leave me!” So everybody left him.</p>
<p id="p97" class="p97 sb"><span id="chapter13_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10 </sup></strong>Am′non now said to Ta′mar: “Bring the food<span id="footnotesource78"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote78">*</a> into the bedroom, so that I may eat it from your hand.” So Ta′mar took the heart-shaped cakes that she had made and brought them to her brother Am′non in the bedroom. <span id="chapter13_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11 </sup></strong>When she brought them for him to eat, he grabbed her and said: “Come, lie down with me, my sister.” <span id="chapter13_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12 </sup></strong>But she said to him: “No, my brother! Do not humiliate me, for such a thing is not done in Israel. Do not do this disgraceful thing. <span id="chapter13_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13 </sup></strong>How could I live down my shame? And you will be regarded as one of the disgraceful men in Israel. Now speak, please, to the king, for he will not withhold me from you.” <span id="chapter13_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14 </sup></strong>But he refused to listen to her, and he overpowered her and humiliated her by raping her. <span id="chapter13_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15 </sup></strong>Then <span id="page458"></span>Am′non began hating her with a very intense hatred, so that his hatred for her became greater than the love he had felt for her. Am′non said to her: “Get up; go away!” <span id="chapter13_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16 </sup></strong>At this she said to him: “No, my brother, for sending me away now is worse than what you have done with me!” But he refused to listen to her.</p>
<p id="p98" class="p98 sb"><span id="chapter13_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17 </sup></strong>With that he called his young attendant and said: “Get this person out of my presence, please, and lock the door behind her.” <span id="chapter13_verse18"></span><strong><sup>18 </sup></strong>(Now she was wearing a special<span id="footnotesource79"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote79">*</a> robe, for those were the garments that the virgin daughters of the king wore.) So his attendant led her outside, and he locked the door behind her. <span id="chapter13_verse19"></span><strong><sup>19 </sup></strong>Then Ta′mar put ashes on her head, and she ripped apart the fine robe she was wearing; and she kept her hands on her head and walked off, crying out as she walked.</p>
<p id="p99" class="p99 sb"><span id="chapter13_verse20"></span><strong><sup>20 </sup></strong>At this her brother Ab′sa·lom asked her: “Was it your brother Am′non who was with you? And now keep silent, my sister. He is your brother. Do not let your heart dwell on this matter.” Then Ta′mar lived in isolation at the house of her brother Ab′sa·lom. <span id="chapter13_verse21"></span><strong><sup>21 </sup></strong>When King David heard about all these things, he became very angry. But he would not hurt the feelings of Am′non his son, because he loved him, for he was his firstborn. <span id="chapter13_verse22"></span><strong><sup>22 </sup></strong>And Ab′sa·lom said nothing to Am′non, either bad or good; for Ab′sa·lom hated Am′non because he had humiliated his sister Ta′mar.</p>
<p id="p100" class="p100 sb"><span id="pos50875"></span><span id="chapter13_verse23"></span><strong><sup>23 </sup></strong>After two full years, Ab′sa·lom’s sheepshearers were at Ba′al-ha′zor, near E′phra·im, and Ab′sa·lom invited all the sons of the king. <span id="chapter13_verse24"></span><strong><sup>24 </sup></strong>So Ab′sa·lom came in to the king and said: “Your servant is having his sheep sheared. Please let the king and his servants go with me.” <span id="chapter13_verse25"></span><strong><sup>25 </sup></strong>But the king said to Ab′sa·lom: “No, my son. If all of us go, we will be a burden to you.” Although he kept urging him, he did not consent to go, but he blessed him. <span id="chapter13_verse26"></span><strong><sup>26 </sup></strong>Ab′sa·lom then said: “If not you, please let my brother Am′non go with us.” The king replied to him: “Why should he go with you?” <span id="chapter13_verse27"></span><strong><sup>27 </sup></strong>But Ab′sa·lom urged him, so he sent Am′non and all the king’s sons with him.</p>
<p id="p101" class="p101 sb"><span id="chapter13_verse28"></span><strong><sup>28 </sup></strong>Then Ab′sa·lom ordered his attendants: “Watch, and when Am′non’s heart is in a cheerful mood from the wine, I will say to you, ‘Strike down Am′non!’ You must then put him to death. Do not be afraid. Is it not I who commands you? Be strong and courageous.” <span id="chapter13_verse29"></span><strong><sup>29 </sup></strong>So Ab′sa·lom’s attendants did to Am′non exactly as Ab′sa·lom had ordered; then all the other sons of the king got up, and each one mounted his mule and fled. <span id="chapter13_verse30"></span><strong><sup>30 </sup></strong>While they were on the way, the report reached David: “Ab′sa·lom has struck down all the sons of the king, and not one of them survived.” <span id="chapter13_verse31"></span><strong><sup>31 </sup></strong>At this the king got up and ripped his clothes apart and lay on the ground, and all his servants were standing by with their garments ripped apart.</p>
<p id="p102" class="p102 sb"><span id="chapter13_verse32"></span><strong><sup>32 </sup></strong>However, Je·hon′a·dab the son of Shim′e·ah, David’s brother, said: “Do not let my lord think that they have killed all the young sons of the king, for only Am′non has died. This is by the order of Ab′sa·lom, who decided to do this from the day that Am′non humiliated his sister Ta′mar. <span id="chapter13_verse33"></span><strong><sup>33 </sup></strong>Now do not let my lord the king pay attention to<span id="footnotesource80"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote80">*</a> the report that says, ‘All the king’s sons have died’; only Am′non has died.”</p>
<p id="p103" class="p103 sb"><span id="page459"></span><span id="pos52717"></span><span id="chapter13_verse34"></span><strong><sup>34 </sup></strong>Meanwhile, Ab′sa·lom ran away. Later the watchman raised his eyes and saw that there were many people coming from the road behind him next to the mountain. <span id="chapter13_verse35"></span><strong><sup>35 </sup></strong>At this Je·hon′a·dab said to the king: “Look! The king’s sons have returned. It is just as your servant said.” <span id="chapter13_verse36"></span><strong><sup>36 </sup></strong>As he finished speaking, the king’s sons came in, weeping loudly; also the king and all his servants wept very bitterly. <span id="chapter13_verse37"></span><strong><sup>37 </sup></strong>But Ab′sa·lom fled and went to Tal′mai the son of Am·mi′hud the king of Gesh′ur. David mourned his son for many days. <span id="chapter13_verse38"></span><strong><sup>38 </sup></strong>After Ab′sa·lom fled and went to Gesh′ur, he stayed there for three years.</p>
<p id="p104" class="p104 sb"><span id="chapter13_verse39"></span><strong><sup>39 </sup></strong>Finally King David longed to go to Ab′sa·lom, for he had become reconciled to<span id="footnotesource81"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote81">*</a> the death of Am′non.</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote76"><p><a href="044_2SA-.1-split13.xhtml#footnotesource76">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Sam. 13:5</span></a> Or “the bread of consolation.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote77"><p><a href="044_2SA-.1-split13.xhtml#footnotesource77">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Sam. 13:7</span></a> Or “the bread of consolation.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote78"><p><a href="044_2SA-.1-split13.xhtml#footnotesource78">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Sam. 13:10</span></a> Or “the bread of consolation.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote79"><p><a href="044_2SA-.1-split13.xhtml#footnotesource79">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Sam. 13:18</span></a> Or “an ornamented.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote80"><p><a href="044_2SA-.1-split13.xhtml#footnotesource80">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Sam. 13:33</span></a> Lit., “take to his heart.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote81"><p><a href="044_2SA-.1-split13.xhtml#footnotesource81">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Sam. 13:39</span></a> Or “had found consolation over.”</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
