<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>2 Samuel 21</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/docclass1.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
<p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">2 Samuel</a>  <a href="biblechapternav10.xhtml">21</a> : <a href="bibleversenav10_21.xhtml">1 - 22</a></p>
<p id="p171" class="p171 sb"><span id="pos92330"></span><span id="chapter21"></span><span id="chapter21_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>21 </strong></span>Now there was a famine in the days of David for three consecutive years, so David consulted Jehovah, and Jehovah said: “There is bloodguilt on Saul and on his house, because he put the Gib′e·on·ites to death.” <span id="chapter21_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2 </sup></strong>So the king called the Gib′e·on·ites and spoke to them. (Incidentally, the Gib′e·on·ites were not Israelites but Am′or·ites who remained, and the Israelites had sworn to spare them, but Saul sought to strike them down in his zeal for the people of Israel and Judah.) <span id="chapter21_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3 </sup></strong>David said to the Gib′e·on·ites: “What should I do for you, and how can I make atonement, so that you will bless the inheritance of Jehovah?” <span id="chapter21_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4 </sup></strong>The Gib′e·on·ites said to him: “It is not a matter of silver or gold for us in connection with Saul and his household; nor can we put any man to death in Israel.” At that he said: “Whatever you say, I will do for you.” <span id="chapter21_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5 </sup></strong>They said to the king: “The man who exterminated us and schemed to annihilate us from living anywhere in the territory of Israel— <span id="chapter21_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6 </sup></strong>let seven of his sons be given to us. We will hang their dead bodies<span id="footnotesource140"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote140">*</a> before Jehovah in Gib′e·ah of Saul, the chosen one of Jehovah.” The king then said: “I will hand them over.”</p>
<p id="p172" class="p172 sb"><span id="chapter21_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7 </sup></strong>However, the king showed compassion for Me·phib′o·sheth, the son of Jon′a·than the son of Saul, because of the oath made before Jehovah between David and Jon′a·than, the son of Saul. <span id="chapter21_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8 </sup></strong>So the king took Ar·mo′ni and Me·phib′o·sheth, the two sons of Riz′pah the daughter of A′iah whom she bore to <span id="page472"></span>Saul, and the five sons of Mi′chal<span id="footnotesource141"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote141">*</a> the daughter of Saul whom she bore to A′dri·el the son of Bar·zil′lai the Me·hol′ath·ite. <span id="chapter21_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9 </sup></strong>Then he handed them over to the Gib′e·on·ites, and they hung their dead bodies on the mountain before Jehovah. All seven of them died together; they were put to death in the first days of harvest, at the start of the barley harvest. <span id="chapter21_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10 </sup></strong>Then Riz′pah the daughter of A′iah took sackcloth and spread it out on the rock from the start of harvest until rain poured down from the heavens on the bodies; she did not allow the birds of the heavens to land on them by day nor the wild beasts of the field to come near by night.</p>
<p id="p173" class="p173 sb"><span id="chapter21_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11 </sup></strong>David was told what Saul’s concubine Riz′pah the daughter of A′iah had done. <span id="chapter21_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12 </sup></strong>So David went and took the bones of Saul and the bones of his son Jon′a·than from the leaders<span id="footnotesource142"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote142">*</a> of Ja′besh-gil′e·ad, who had stolen them from the public square of Beth-shan, where the Phi·lis′tines had hung them on the day that the Phi·lis′tines struck down Saul on Gil·bo′a. <span id="chapter21_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13 </sup></strong>He brought the bones of Saul and the bones of his son Jon′a·than up from there, and they also gathered the bones of the men who had been executed.<span id="footnotesource143"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote143">*</a> <span id="chapter21_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14 </sup></strong>Then they buried the bones of Saul and of Jon′a·than his son in the land of Benjamin in Ze′la in the tomb of Kish his father. After they did everything that the king had commanded, God listened to their entreaties for the land.</p>
<p id="p174" class="p174 sb"><span id="pos95236"></span><span id="chapter21_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15 </sup></strong>Once again there was war between the Phi·lis′tines and Israel. So David and his servants went down and fought the Phi·lis′tines, but David became exhausted. <span id="chapter21_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16 </sup></strong>A descendant of the Reph′a·im named Ish′bi-be′nob, whose copper spear weighed 300 shekels<span id="footnotesource144"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote144">*</a> and who was armed with a new sword, intended to strike David down. <span id="chapter21_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17 </sup></strong>At once A·bish′ai the son of Ze·ru′iah came to his aid and struck the Phi·lis′tine down and put him to death. At that time the men of David swore this oath to him: “You must not go out with us to battle anymore! You must not extinguish the lamp of Israel!”</p>
<p id="p175" class="p175 sb"><span id="chapter21_verse18"></span><strong><sup>18 </sup></strong>After this, war broke out again with the Phi·lis′tines at Gob. At that time Sib′be·cai the Hu′shath·ite struck down Saph, who was a descendant of the Reph′a·im.</p>
<p id="p176" class="p176 sb"><span id="chapter21_verse19"></span><strong><sup>19 </sup></strong>And war broke out again with the Phi·lis′tines at Gob, and El·ha′nan the son of Ja′a·re-or′e·gim the Beth′le·hem·ite struck down Go·li′ath the Git′tite, whose spear had a shaft like the beam of loom workers.</p>
<p id="p177" class="p177 sb"><span id="chapter21_verse20"></span><strong><sup>20 </sup></strong>War broke out yet again at Gath, where there was a man of extraordinary size, with 6 fingers on each hand and 6 toes on each foot, 24 in all; and he too was a descendant of the Reph′a·im. <span id="chapter21_verse21"></span><strong><sup>21 </sup></strong>He kept taunting Israel. So Jon′a·than the son of Shim′e·i, David’s brother, struck him down.</p>
<p id="p178" class="p178 sb"><span id="chapter21_verse22"></span><strong><sup>22 </sup></strong>These four were descendants of the Reph′a·im in Gath, and they fell by the hand of David and by the hand of his servants.</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote140"><p><a href="044_2SA-.1-split21.xhtml#footnotesource140">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Sam. 21:6</span></a> Lit., “will expose them,” that is, with arms and legs broken.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote141"><p><a href="044_2SA-.1-split21.xhtml#footnotesource141">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Sam. 21:8</span></a> Or possibly, “Merab.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote142"><p><a href="044_2SA-.1-split21.xhtml#footnotesource142">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Sam. 21:12</span></a> Or possibly, “landowners.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote143"><p><a href="044_2SA-.1-split21.xhtml#footnotesource143">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Sam. 21:13</span></a> Lit., “exposed.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote144"><p><a href="044_2SA-.1-split21.xhtml#footnotesource144">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Sam. 21:16</span></a> About 3.42 kg (7.5 lb). See <a href="193_APPB.14B.xhtml">App. B14</a>.</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
