<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>2 Samuel 2</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/docclass1.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
<p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">2 Samuel</a>  <a href="biblechapternav10.xhtml">2</a> : <a href="bibleversenav10_2.xhtml">1 - 32</a></p>
<p id="p20" class="p20 sb"><span id="pos3837"></span><span id="chapter2"></span><span id="chapter2_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>2 </strong></span>Afterward David inquired of Jehovah, saying: “Should I go up into one of the cities of Judah?” Jehovah said to him: “Go up.” David then asked: “Where should I go?” He replied: “To Heb′ron.” <span id="chapter2_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2 </sup></strong>So David went up there with his two wives, A·hin′o·am of Jez′re·el and Ab′i·gail the widow of Na′bal the Car′mel·ite. <span id="chapter2_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3 </sup></strong>David also brought the men who were with him, each with his household, and they settled in the cities around Heb′ron. <span id="chapter2_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4 </sup></strong>Then the men of Judah came, and there they anointed David as king over the house of Judah.</p>
<p id="p21" class="p21 sb">They told David: “The men of Ja′besh-gil′e·ad were the ones who buried Saul.” <span id="chapter2_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5 </sup></strong>So David sent messengers to the men of Ja′besh-gil′e·ad and said to them: “May you be blessed by Jehovah, because you showed loyal love to your lord Saul by burying him. <span id="chapter2_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6 </sup></strong>May Jehovah show loyal love and faithfulness to you. I will also show you kindness because you have done this. <span id="chapter2_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7 </sup></strong>Now let your hands be strong and be courageous men, for your lord Saul is dead, and the house of Judah has anointed me as king over them.”</p>
<p id="p22" class="p22 sb"><span id="pos4887"></span><span id="chapter2_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8 </sup></strong>But Ab′ner the son of Ner, the chief of Saul’s army, had taken Saul’s son Ish-bo′sheth and brought him across to Ma·ha·na′im <span id="chapter2_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9 </sup></strong>and made him king over Gil′e·ad, the Ash′ur·ites, Jez′re·el, E′phra·im, Benjamin, and over all Israel. <span id="chapter2_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10 </sup></strong>Ish-bo′sheth, Saul’s son, was 40 years old when he became king over Israel, and he reigned for two years. The house of Judah, however, supported David. <span id="chapter2_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11 </sup></strong>The time<span id="footnotesource6"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote6">*</a> that David was king in Heb′ron over the house of Judah was seven years and six months.</p>
<p id="p23" class="p23 sb"><span id="pos5394"></span><span id="chapter2_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12 </sup></strong>In time Ab′ner the son of Ner and the servants of Ish-bo′sheth, Saul’s son, went out from Ma·ha·na′im to Gib′e·on. <span id="chapter2_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13 </sup></strong>Jo′ab the son of Ze·ru′iah and the servants of David also went out and encountered them at the pool of Gib′e·on; and one group sat on this side of the pool, and the other group on that side of the pool. <span id="chapter2_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14 </sup></strong>Finally Ab′ner said to Jo′ab: “Let the young men get up and engage in combat<span id="footnotesource7"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote7">*</a> before us.” To this Jo′ab said: “Let them get up.” <span id="chapter2_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15 </sup></strong>So they got up and crossed over by number, 12 for Benjamin <span id="page444"></span>and Saul’s son Ish-bo′sheth and 12 from the servants of David. <span id="chapter2_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16 </sup></strong>They grabbed one another by the head and each of them thrust his sword into the side of his opponent, and they all fell down together. So that place, which is in Gib′e·on, was called Hel′kath-haz·zu′rim.</p>
<p id="p24" class="p24 sb"><span id="chapter2_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17 </sup></strong>The fighting that ensued was extremely fierce that day, and Ab′ner and the men of Israel were finally defeated before the servants of David. <span id="chapter2_verse18"></span><strong><sup>18 </sup></strong>Now the three sons of Ze·ru′iah were there—Jo′ab, A·bish′ai, and As′a·hel; and As′a·hel was as swift on his feet as a gazelle in the open field. <span id="chapter2_verse19"></span><strong><sup>19 </sup></strong>As′a·hel chased after Ab′ner, and he would not veer to the right or to the left in his pursuit of Ab′ner. <span id="chapter2_verse20"></span><strong><sup>20 </sup></strong>When Ab′ner looked behind, he asked, “Is that you, As′a·hel?” to which he replied, “Yes, it is.” <span id="chapter2_verse21"></span><strong><sup>21 </sup></strong>Then Ab′ner said to him: “Veer to your right or to your left and capture one of the young men, and take whatever you strip off him for yourself.” But As′a·hel did not want to stop chasing him. <span id="chapter2_verse22"></span><strong><sup>22 </sup></strong>So Ab′ner said to As′a·hel once again: “Stop chasing me. Why should I strike you down? How could I look your brother Jo′ab in the face?” <span id="chapter2_verse23"></span><strong><sup>23 </sup></strong>But he kept refusing to stop, so Ab′ner struck him in the abdomen with the butt end of the spear, and the spear came out from his back; and he fell there and died on the spot. Everyone who came to the place where As′a·hel fell and died would stop and pause there.</p>
<p id="p25" class="p25 sb"><span id="chapter2_verse24"></span><strong><sup>24 </sup></strong>Then Jo′ab and A·bish′ai went in pursuit of Ab′ner. As the sun was setting, they came to the hill of Am′mah, which faces Gi′ah on the way to the wilderness of Gib′e·on. <span id="chapter2_verse25"></span><strong><sup>25 </sup></strong>There the Ben′ja·min·ites gathered together behind Ab′ner, and they formed one company and made a stand on the top of a certain hill. <span id="chapter2_verse26"></span><strong><sup>26 </sup></strong>Then Ab′ner called out to Jo′ab: “Is the sword going to devour endlessly? Do you not know that the outcome will only be bitterness? How long, then, will it be before you tell the people to turn back from pursuing their brothers?” <span id="chapter2_verse27"></span><strong><sup>27 </sup></strong>At that Jo′ab said: “As surely as the true God is living, if you had not spoken, then only by the morning would the people have stopped pursuing their brothers.” <span id="chapter2_verse28"></span><strong><sup>28 </sup></strong>Jo′ab now blew the horn, and his men stopped chasing after Israel, and the fighting ceased.</p>
<p id="p26" class="p26 sb"><span id="chapter2_verse29"></span><strong><sup>29 </sup></strong>Ab′ner and his men then marched through the Ar′a·bah all that night and crossed the Jordan and marched through the entire ravine<span id="footnotesource8"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote8">*</a> and finally came to Ma·ha·na′im. <span id="chapter2_verse30"></span><strong><sup>30 </sup></strong>After Jo′ab turned back from pursuing Ab′ner, he gathered all the people together. Of David’s servants, 19 were missing, in addition to As′a·hel. <span id="chapter2_verse31"></span><strong><sup>31 </sup></strong>But the servants of David had defeated the Ben′ja·min·ites and the men of Ab′ner, and 360 of their men had died. <span id="chapter2_verse32"></span><strong><sup>32 </sup></strong>They took As′a·hel and buried him in his father’s tomb, which is at Beth′le·hem. Then Jo′ab and his men marched all night long, and they reached Heb′ron at daybreak.</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote6"><p><a href="044_2SA-.1-split2.xhtml#footnotesource6">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Sam. 2:11</span></a> Lit., “The number of days.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote7"><p><a href="044_2SA-.1-split2.xhtml#footnotesource7">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Sam. 2:14</span></a> Or “put on a competition.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote8"><p><a href="044_2SA-.1-split2.xhtml#footnotesource8">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Sam. 2:29</span></a> Or possibly, “through all of Bithron.”</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
