<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>2 Samuel 3</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/docclass1.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
<p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">2 Samuel</a>  <a href="biblechapternav10.xhtml">3</a> : <a href="bibleversenav10_3.xhtml">1 - 39</a></p>
<p id="p27" class="p27 sb"><span id="pos8783"></span><span id="chapter3"></span><span id="chapter3_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>3 </strong></span>The war between the house of Saul and the house of David dragged on; and David kept getting stronger, and the house of Saul grew steadily weaker.</p>
<p id="p28" class="p28 sb"><span id="pos8934"></span><span id="chapter3_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2 </sup></strong>Meanwhile, sons were born to David in Heb′ron. His firstborn was Am′non by A·hin′o·am of Jez′re·el. <span id="chapter3_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3 </sup></strong>His second was Chil′e·ab by Ab′i·gail, the widow of Na′bal the Car′mel·ite; and the third was Ab′sa·lom the son of Ma′a·cah, the daughter of Tal′mai<span id="page445"></span> the king of Gesh′ur. <span id="chapter3_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4 </sup></strong>The fourth was Ad·o·ni′jah the son of Hag′gith, and the fifth was Sheph·a·ti′ah the son of A·bi′tal. <span id="chapter3_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5 </sup></strong>The sixth was Ith′re·am by David’s wife Eg′lah. These were born to David in Heb′ron.</p>
<p id="p29" class="p29 sb"><span id="pos9415"></span><span id="chapter3_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6 </sup></strong>While the war between the house of Saul and the house of David continued, Ab′ner kept strengthening his position in the house of Saul. <span id="chapter3_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7 </sup></strong>Now Saul had had a concubine whose name was Riz′pah, the daughter of A′iah. Ish-bo′sheth later said to Ab′ner: “Why did you have relations with the concubine of my father?” <span id="chapter3_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8 </sup></strong>Ab′ner grew very angry over the words of Ish-bo′sheth and said: “Am I a dog’s head from Judah? Until this very day, I have shown loyal love toward the house of your father Saul and to his brothers and his friends, and I have not betrayed you into the hand of David; yet today you call me to account for an error concerning a woman. <span id="chapter3_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9 </sup></strong>May God do so to Ab′ner and add to it if I do not do for David just as Jehovah swore to him: <span id="chapter3_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10 </sup></strong>to transfer the kingdom from the house of Saul and to establish the throne of David over Israel and over Judah, from Dan to Be′er-she′ba.” <span id="chapter3_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11 </sup></strong>He was not able to say one more word in reply to Ab′ner, for he was afraid of him.</p>
<p id="p30" class="p30 sb"><span id="chapter3_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12 </sup></strong>Ab′ner immediately sent messengers to David, saying: “To whom does the land belong?” He added: “Make a covenant with me, and I will do whatever I can<span id="footnotesource9"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote9">*</a> to turn all Israel to your side.” <span id="chapter3_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13 </sup></strong>To this he replied: “Good! I will make a covenant with you. The only thing I ask of you is that you do not try to see my face unless first you bring Mi′chal, Saul’s daughter, when you come to see me.” <span id="chapter3_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14 </sup></strong>Then David sent messengers to Ish-bo′sheth, Saul’s son, saying: “Give me my wife Mi′chal, to whom I became engaged for 100 foreskins of the Phi·lis′tines.” <span id="chapter3_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15 </sup></strong>So Ish-bo′sheth sent to take her from her husband, Pal′ti·el the son of La′ish. <span id="chapter3_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16 </sup></strong>But her husband kept walking with her, weeping as he followed her as far as Ba·hu′rim. Then Ab′ner said to him: “Go, return!” At that he returned.</p>
<p id="p31" class="p31 sb"><span id="chapter3_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17 </sup></strong>Meanwhile, Ab′ner sent word to the elders of Israel, saying: “For some time you wanted to have David as king over you. <span id="chapter3_verse18"></span><strong><sup>18 </sup></strong>Now act, for Jehovah said to David: ‘By the hand of my servant David I will save my people Israel from the hand of the Phi·lis′tines and from the hand of all their enemies.’” <span id="chapter3_verse19"></span><strong><sup>19 </sup></strong>Then Ab′ner spoke to the people of Benjamin. Ab′ner also went to speak privately to David at Heb′ron to tell him what Israel and the whole house of Benjamin had agreed upon.</p>
<p id="p32" class="p32 sb"><span id="chapter3_verse20"></span><strong><sup>20 </sup></strong>When Ab′ner came to David at Heb′ron with 20 men, David held a feast for Ab′ner and for the men with him. <span id="chapter3_verse21"></span><strong><sup>21 </sup></strong>Then Ab′ner said to David: “Let me go and gather all Israel together to my lord the king, so that they may make a covenant with you, and you will become king over all that you desire.”<span id="footnotesource10"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote10">*</a> So David sent Ab′ner off, and he went his way in peace.</p>
<p id="p33" class="p33 sb"><span id="pos12070"></span><span id="chapter3_verse22"></span><strong><sup>22 </sup></strong>Just then, David’s servants and Jo′ab returned from a raid, bringing a great quantity of spoil back with them. Ab′ner was no longer with David in Heb′ron, for he had sent him on his way in peace. <span id="chapter3_verse23"></span><strong><sup>23 </sup></strong>When Jo′ab and all the army that was with him arrived, Jo′ab was told: “Ab′ner the son of Ner came to <span id="page446"></span>the king, and he sent him off, and he went his way in peace.” <span id="chapter3_verse24"></span><strong><sup>24 </sup></strong>So Jo′ab went in to the king and said: “What have you done? Here Ab′ner came to you. Why did you send him off so that he successfully got away? <span id="chapter3_verse25"></span><strong><sup>25 </sup></strong>You know Ab′ner the son of Ner! He came here to fool you and to get to know your every move and to find out everything that you are doing.”</p>
<p id="p34" class="p34 sb"><span id="chapter3_verse26"></span><strong><sup>26 </sup></strong>So Jo′ab left David and sent messengers after Ab′ner, and they brought him back from the cistern of Si′rah; but David did not know anything about it. <span id="chapter3_verse27"></span><strong><sup>27 </sup></strong>When Ab′ner returned to Heb′ron, Jo′ab took him aside inside the gate to speak with him privately. However, there he stabbed him in the abdomen, and he died; this was for killing<span id="footnotesource11"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote11">*</a> his brother As′a·hel. <span id="chapter3_verse28"></span><strong><sup>28 </sup></strong>When David heard about it later, he said: “I and my kingdom are forever innocent before Jehovah of the bloodguilt for Ab′ner the son of Ner. <span id="chapter3_verse29"></span><strong><sup>29 </sup></strong>May it turn back on the head of Jo′ab and on the entire house of his father. May Jo′ab’s house never be without a man suffering from a discharge or a leper or a man working at the spindle<span id="footnotesource12"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote12">*</a> or one falling by the sword or one in need of food!” <span id="chapter3_verse30"></span><strong><sup>30 </sup></strong>So Jo′ab and his brother A·bish′ai killed Ab′ner because he had put As′a·hel their brother to death in the battle at Gib′e·on.</p>
<p id="p35" class="p35 sb"><span id="pos13653"></span><span id="chapter3_verse31"></span><strong><sup>31 </sup></strong>Then David said to Jo′ab and all the people with him: “Rip your garments apart and tie on sackcloth and wail over Ab′ner.” King David himself was walking behind the funeral bier. <span id="chapter3_verse32"></span><strong><sup>32 </sup></strong>They buried Ab′ner in Heb′ron; and the king wept loudly at Ab′ner’s tomb, and all the people gave way to weeping. <span id="chapter3_verse33"></span><strong><sup>33 </sup></strong>The king chanted over Ab′ner and said:</p>
<p id="p36" class="p36 sz">“Should Ab′ner die the death of a senseless person?</p>
<p id="p37" class="p37 sl"><span id="chapter3_verse34"></span><strong><sup>34 </sup></strong>Your hands had not been bound,</p>
<p class="p37 sl">And your feet were not in fetters.<span id="footnotesource13"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote13">*</a></p>
<p id="p38" class="p38 sz">You fell like one falling before criminals.”<span id="footnotesource14"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote14">*</a></p>
<p id="p39" class="p39 sb">At that all the people wept over him again.</p>
<p id="p40" class="p40 sb"><span id="chapter3_verse35"></span><strong><sup>35 </sup></strong>Later all the people came to give David bread for consolation<span id="footnotesource15"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote15">*</a> while it was still daytime, but David swore: “May God do so to me and add to it if before the sun sets I taste bread or anything at all!” <span id="chapter3_verse36"></span><strong><sup>36 </sup></strong>All the people took notice, and it pleased them. Like everything that the king did, it pleased all the people. <span id="chapter3_verse37"></span><strong><sup>37 </sup></strong>So all the people and all Israel knew on that day that the king was not responsible for having Ab′ner the son of Ner put to death. <span id="chapter3_verse38"></span><strong><sup>38 </sup></strong>Then the king said to his servants: “Do you not know that a prince and a great man has fallen this day in Israel? <span id="chapter3_verse39"></span><strong><sup>39 </sup></strong>Today I am weak, although anointed as king, and these men, the sons of Ze·ru′iah, are too brutal for me. May Jehovah repay the evildoer according to his own evil.”</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote9"><p><a href="044_2SA-.1-split3.xhtml#footnotesource9">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Sam. 3:12</span></a> Lit., “and look! my hand is with you.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote10"><p><a href="044_2SA-.1-split3.xhtml#footnotesource10">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Sam. 3:21</span></a> Or “your soul desires.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote11"><p><a href="044_2SA-.1-split3.xhtml#footnotesource11">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Sam. 3:27</span></a> Lit., “for the blood of.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote12"><p><a href="044_2SA-.1-split3.xhtml#footnotesource12">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Sam. 3:29</span></a> Perhaps referring to a crippled man required to do women’s work.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote13"><p><a href="044_2SA-.1-split3.xhtml#footnotesource13">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Sam. 3:34</span></a> Lit., “copper.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote14"><p><a href="044_2SA-.1-split3.xhtml#footnotesource14">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Sam. 3:34</span></a> Lit., “the sons of unrighteousness.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote15"><p><a href="044_2SA-.1-split3.xhtml#footnotesource15">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Sam. 3:35</span></a> Or “bread of mourning.”</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
