<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>2 Samuel 20</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/docclass1.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
<p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">2 Samuel</a>  <a href="biblechapternav10.xhtml">20</a> : <a href="bibleversenav10_20.xhtml">1 - 26</a></p>
<p id="p162" class="p162 sb"><span id="pos87686"></span><span id="chapter20"></span><span id="chapter20_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>20 </strong></span>Now there was a troublemaker named She′ba the son of Bich′ri, a Ben′ja·min·ite. He blew the horn and said: “We have no share in David, and we have no inheritance in the son of Jes′se. Everyone to his gods,<span id="footnotesource134"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote134">*</a> O Israel!” <span id="chapter20_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2 </sup></strong>At that all the men of Israel quit following David to follow She′ba the son of Bich′ri; but the men of Judah stuck to their king, from the Jordan to Jerusalem.</p>
<p id="p163" class="p163 sb"><span id="chapter20_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3 </sup></strong>When David came to his house<span id="footnotesource135"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote135">*</a> at Jerusalem, the king took the ten concubines he had left behind to take care of the house, and he put them in a house under guard. He supplied food to them, but he did not have any relations with them. They remained in confinement until the day of their death, living as if they were widows, even though they had a living husband.</p>
<p id="p164" class="p164 sb"><span id="chapter20_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4 </sup></strong>The king now said to A·ma′sa: “Call the men of Judah together to me within three days, and you also should be here.” <span id="chapter20_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5 </sup></strong>So A·ma′sa went to call Judah together, but he came later than the set time that had been appointed for him. <span id="chapter20_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6 </sup></strong>Then David said to A·bish′ai: “She′ba the son of Bich′ri may do us more harm than Ab′sa·lom did. Take the servants of your lord and chase after him, so that he may not find fortified cities and escape from us.” <span id="chapter20_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7 </sup></strong>So the men of Jo′ab, the Cher′e·thites, the Pel′e·thites, and all the mighty men went out after him; they left Jerusalem to chase after She′ba the son of Bich′ri. <span id="chapter20_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8 </sup></strong>When they were near the great stone in Gib′e·on, A·ma′sa came to meet them. Now Jo′ab was wearing his battle clothing, and he had a sword in its sheath strapped to his hip. When he stepped forward, the sword fell out.</p>
<p id="p165" class="p165 sb"><span id="chapter20_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9 </sup></strong>Jo′ab said to A·ma′sa: “Are you all right, my brother?” Then with his right hand, Jo′ab took hold of A·ma′sa’s beard as if to kiss him. <span id="chapter20_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10 </sup></strong>A·ma′sa was not on guard against the sword that was in Jo′ab’s hand, and Jo′ab stabbed him with it in the abdomen, and his intestines spilled out on the ground. He did not have to stab him again; once was enough to kill him. Then Jo′ab and his brother A·bish′ai chased after She′ba the son of Bich′ri.</p>
<p id="p166" class="p166 sb"><span id="chapter20_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11 </sup></strong>One of Jo′ab’s young men stood by him and was saying: “Whoever is on Jo′ab’s side and whoever belongs to David, let him follow Jo′ab!” <span id="chapter20_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12 </sup></strong>All the while A·ma′sa was wallowing in his blood in the middle of the road. When the man saw that all the people were stopping, he moved A·ma′sa from the road to the field. Then he threw a garment over him, because he saw that everyone was stopping when they came up to him. <span id="chapter20_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13 </sup></strong>After he had removed him from the road, all the men followed Jo′ab to chase after She′ba the son of Bich′ri.</p>
<p id="p167" class="p167 sb"><span id="pos90282"></span><span id="chapter20_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14 </sup></strong>She′ba passed through all the tribes of Israel to Abel of Beth-ma′a·cah. The Bich′rites gathered together and also went in after him.</p>
<p id="p168" class="p168 sb"><span id="chapter20_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15 </sup></strong>Joab and his men<span id="footnotesource136"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote136">*</a> came and besieged him in Abel of Beth-ma′a·cah and raised up a siege rampart against the city, as it was standing within a rampart. And all the men with Jo′ab were undermining the wall to knock it down. <span id="chapter20_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16 </sup></strong>And a wise <span id="page471"></span>woman called out from the city: “Listen, men, listen! Please tell Jo′ab, ‘Come here, and let me speak to you.’” <span id="chapter20_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17 </sup></strong>So he went near to her, and the woman said: “Are you Jo′ab?” He replied: “I am.” At this she said to him: “Listen to the words of your servant.” He said: “I am listening.” <span id="chapter20_verse18"></span><strong><sup>18 </sup></strong>She continued: “They would always say in the past, ‘Let them inquire in Abel, and that was the end of the matter.’ <span id="chapter20_verse19"></span><strong><sup>19 </sup></strong>I represent the peaceable and faithful ones of Israel. You are seeking to destroy a city that is like a mother in Israel. Why should you do away with<span id="footnotesource137"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote137">*</a> the inheritance of Jehovah?” <span id="chapter20_verse20"></span><strong><sup>20 </sup></strong>Jo′ab answered: “It is unthinkable for me to do away with it and destroy it. <span id="chapter20_verse21"></span><strong><sup>21 </sup></strong>That is not the case at all. Rather, a man named She′ba the son of Bich′ri from the mountainous region of E′phra·im has rebelled<span id="footnotesource138"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote138">*</a> against King David. If you hand over this one man, I will withdraw from the city.” Then the woman said to Jo′ab: “Look! His head will be thrown over the wall to you!”</p>
<p id="p169" class="p169 sb"><span id="chapter20_verse22"></span><strong><sup>22 </sup></strong>At once the wise woman went in to all the people, and they cut off the head of She′ba the son of Bich′ri and threw it to Jo′ab. At that he blew the horn, and they dispersed from the city, each one to his home; and Jo′ab returned to Jerusalem to the king.</p>
<p id="p170" class="p170 sb"><span id="pos91927"></span><span id="chapter20_verse23"></span><strong><sup>23 </sup></strong>Now Jo′ab was in charge of all the army of Israel; Be·nai′ah the son of Je·hoi′a·da was over the Cher′e·thites and the Pel′e·thites. <span id="chapter20_verse24"></span><strong><sup>24 </sup></strong>A·do′ram was over those conscripted for forced labor; Je·hosh′a·phat the son of A·hi′lud was the recorder. <span id="chapter20_verse25"></span><strong><sup>25 </sup></strong>She′va was the secretary; Za′dok and A·bi′a·thar were priests. <span id="chapter20_verse26"></span><strong><sup>26 </sup></strong>And I′ra the Ja′ir·ite also became a chief minister<span id="footnotesource139"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote139">*</a> for David.</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote134"><p><a href="044_2SA-.1-split20.xhtml#footnotesource134">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Sam. 20:1</span></a> Or possibly, “tents.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote135"><p><a href="044_2SA-.1-split20.xhtml#footnotesource135">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Sam. 20:3</span></a> Or “palace.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote136"><p><a href="044_2SA-.1-split20.xhtml#footnotesource136">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Sam. 20:15</span></a> Lit., “They.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote137"><p><a href="044_2SA-.1-split20.xhtml#footnotesource137">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Sam. 20:19</span></a> Lit., “swallow up.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote138"><p><a href="044_2SA-.1-split20.xhtml#footnotesource138">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Sam. 20:21</span></a> Lit., “lifted up his hand.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote139"><p><a href="044_2SA-.1-split20.xhtml#footnotesource139">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Sam. 20:26</span></a> Lit., “became a priest.”</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
