<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>2 Samuel 8</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/docclass1.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
<p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">2 Samuel</a>  <a href="biblechapternav10.xhtml">8</a> : <a href="bibleversenav10_8.xhtml">1 - 18</a></p>
<p id="p62" class="p62 sb"><span id="pos29472"></span><span id="chapter8"></span><span id="chapter8_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>8 </strong></span>Some time later, David defeated the Phi·lis′tines and subdued them, and David took Meth′eg-am′mah out of the hands of the Phi·lis′tines.</p>
<p id="p63" class="p63 sb"><span id="chapter8_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2 </sup></strong>He defeated the Mo′ab·ites and made them lie down on the ground and measured them with a line. He measured out two lines to be put to death, and one full line to be kept alive. And the Mo′ab·ites became David’s servants and brought tribute.</p>
<p id="p64" class="p64 sb"><span id="chapter8_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3 </sup></strong>David defeated Had·ad·e′zer the son of Re′hob the king of Zo′bah as he was on his way to restore his authority at the Eu·phra′tes River. <span id="chapter8_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4 </sup></strong>David captured 1,700 horsemen and 20,000 foot soldiers from him. Then David hamstrung all but 100 of the chariot horses.</p>
<p id="p65" class="p65 sb"><span id="chapter8_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5 </sup></strong>When the Syrians of Damascus came to help King Had·ad·e′zer of Zo′bah, David struck down 22,000 of the Syrians. <span id="chapter8_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6 </sup></strong>David then established garrisons in Syria of Damascus, and the Syrians became David’s servants and brought tribute. Jehovah gave David victory<span id="footnotesource46"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote46">*</a> wherever he went. <span id="chapter8_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7 </sup></strong>Moreover, David took the circular shields of gold from the servants of Had·ad·e′zer and brought them to Jerusalem. <span id="chapter8_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8 </sup></strong>From Be′tah and Be·ro′thai, cities of Had·ad·e′zer, King David took a great quantity of copper.</p>
<p id="p66" class="p66 sb"><span id="chapter8_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9 </sup></strong>Now King To′i of Ha′math heard that David had defeated the entire army of Had·ad·e′zer. <span id="chapter8_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10 </sup></strong>So To′i sent his son Jo′ram to King David to ask about his welfare and to congratulate him because he had fought <span id="page452"></span>and defeated Had·ad·e′zer (for Had·ad·e′zer had often fought against To′i), and he brought articles of silver, gold, and copper. <span id="chapter8_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11 </sup></strong>King David sanctified these to Jehovah, along with the silver and the gold that he had sanctified from all the nations that he had subdued: <span id="chapter8_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12 </sup></strong>from Syria and Mo′ab, from the Am′mon·ites, the Phi·lis′tines, the A·mal′ek·ites, and from the spoil of Had·ad·e′zer the son of Re′hob the king of Zo′bah. <span id="chapter8_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13 </sup></strong>David also made a name for himself when he came back from striking down 18,000 E′dom·ites in the Valley of Salt. <span id="chapter8_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14 </sup></strong>He established garrisons in E′dom. In all E′dom he established garrisons, and all the E′dom·ites became David’s servants. Jehovah gave David victory<span id="footnotesource47"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote47">*</a> wherever he went.</p>
<p id="p67" class="p67 sb"><span id="pos31593"></span><span id="chapter8_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15 </sup></strong>David kept reigning over all Israel, and David was administering justice and righteousness for all his people. <span id="chapter8_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16 </sup></strong>Jo′ab the son of Ze·ru′iah was over the army, and Je·hosh′a·phat the son of A·hi′lud was recorder. <span id="chapter8_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17 </sup></strong>Za′dok the son of A·hi′tub and A·him′e·lech the son of A·bi′a·thar were priests, and Se·rai′ah was secretary. <span id="chapter8_verse18"></span><strong><sup>18 </sup></strong>Be·nai′ah the son of Je·hoi′a·da was over the Cher′e·thites and the Pel′e·thites. And David’s sons became chief ministers.<span id="footnotesource48"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote48">*</a></p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote46"><p><a href="044_2SA-.1-split8.xhtml#footnotesource46">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Sam. 8:6</span></a> Or “salvation.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote47"><p><a href="044_2SA-.1-split8.xhtml#footnotesource47">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Sam. 8:14</span></a> Or “salvation.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote48"><p><a href="044_2SA-.1-split8.xhtml#footnotesource48">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Sam. 8:18</span></a> Lit., “became priests.”</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
