<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>2 Samuel 23</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/docclass1.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
<p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">2 Samuel</a>  <a href="biblechapternav10.xhtml">23</a> : <a href="bibleversenav10_23.xhtml">1 - 39</a></p>
<p id="p235" class="p235 sl"><span id="pos101978"></span><span id="chapter23"></span><span id="chapter23_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>23 </strong></span>These are the last words of David:</p>
<p id="p236" class="p236 sz">“The word of David the son of Jes′se,</p>
<p class="p236 sz">And the word of the man who was raised on high,</p>
<p class="p236 sz">The anointed of the God of Jacob,</p>
<p class="p236 sz">The pleasant singer<span id="footnotesource161"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote161">*</a> of the songs of Israel.</p>
<p id="p237" class="p237 sl"><span id="chapter23_verse2"></span> <strong><sup>2 </sup></strong>The spirit of Jehovah spoke through me;</p>
<p class="p237 sl">His word was on my tongue.</p>
<p id="p238" class="p238 sl"><span id="chapter23_verse3"></span> <strong><sup>3 </sup></strong>The God of Israel spoke;</p>
<p class="p238 sl">To me the Rock of Israel said:</p>
<p id="p239" class="p239 sz">‘When the one ruling over mankind is righteous,</p>
<p class="p239 sz">Ruling in the fear of God,</p>
<p class="p239 sz"><span id="chapter23_verse4"></span> <strong><sup>4 </sup></strong>It is like the morning light when the sun shines,</p>
<p class="p239 sz">A morning without clouds.</p>
<p id="p240" class="p240 sz">It is like the brightness after the rain,</p>
<p class="p240 sz">Making grass sprout from the earth.’</p>
<p id="p241" class="p241 sl"><span id="chapter23_verse5"></span> <strong><sup>5 </sup></strong>Is not my house like that before God?</p>
<p id="p242" class="p242 sz">For he has made an eternal covenant with me,</p>
<p class="p242 sz">Arranged in every detail and secured.</p>
<p id="p243" class="p243 sz">Because it means my complete salvation and all my delight,</p>
<p class="p243 sz">Is that not why he makes it flourish?</p>
<p id="p244" class="p244 sl"><span id="chapter23_verse6"></span> <strong><sup>6 </sup></strong>But worthless men are all thrown away like thornbushes,</p>
<p class="p244 sl">For they cannot be taken with the hand.</p>
<p id="p245" class="p245 sl"><span id="chapter23_verse7"></span> <strong><sup>7 </sup></strong>When a man touches them,</p>
<p class="p245 sl">He should be fully armed with iron and the shaft of a spear,</p>
<p class="p245 sl">And they should be completely burned up with fire in their place.”</p>
<p id="p246" class="p246 sb"><span id="pos103090"></span><span id="chapter23_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8 </sup></strong>These are the names of David’s mighty warriors: Jo′sheb-bas·she′beth a Tah·che′mo·nite, the head of the three. He brandished his spear over 800 slain at one time. <span id="chapter23_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9 </sup></strong>Next to him, El·e·a′zar the son of Do′do the son of A·ho′hi was among the three mighty warriors with David when they taunted the Phi·lis′tines. They had gathered there for the battle, and when the men of Israel retreated, <span id="chapter23_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10 </sup></strong>he stood his ground and kept striking down the Phi·lis′tines until his arm grew weary and his hand became stiff from gripping the sword. So Jehovah brought <span id="page476"></span>about a great victory<span id="footnotesource162"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote162">*</a> on that day; and the people returned behind him to strip the slain.</p>
<p id="p247" class="p247 sb"><span id="chapter23_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11 </sup></strong>Next to him was Sham′mah the son of A′gee the Har′a·rite. The Phi·lis′tines gathered together at Le′hi, where there was a plot of land full of lentils; and the people fled because of the Phi·lis′tines. <span id="chapter23_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12 </sup></strong>But he took his stand in the middle of the field and defended it and kept striking down the Phi·lis′tines, so that Jehovah brought about a great victory.<span id="footnotesource163"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote163">*</a></p>
<p id="p248" class="p248 sb"><span id="chapter23_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13 </sup></strong>Three of the 30 headmen went down during the harvest to David at the cave of A·dul′lam, and a company<span id="footnotesource164"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote164">*</a> of the Phi·lis′tines was camped in the Valley<span id="footnotesource165"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote165">*</a> of Reph′a·im. <span id="chapter23_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14 </sup></strong>David was then in the stronghold, and an outpost of the Phi·lis′tines was in Beth′le·hem. <span id="chapter23_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15 </sup></strong>Then David expressed his longing: “If only I could have a drink of the water from the cistern by the gate of Beth′le·hem!” <span id="chapter23_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16 </sup></strong>At that the three mighty warriors forced their way into the camp of the Phi·lis′tines and drew water from the cistern by the gate of Beth′le·hem and brought it to David; but he refused to drink it and poured it out to Jehovah. <span id="chapter23_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17 </sup></strong>He said: “It is unthinkable on my part, O Jehovah, that I should do this! Should I drink the blood of the men going at the risk of their lives?”<span id="footnotesource166"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote166">*</a> So he refused to drink it. These are the things that his three mighty warriors did.</p>
<p id="p249" class="p249 sb"><span id="chapter23_verse18"></span><strong><sup>18 </sup></strong>A·bish′ai the brother of Jo′ab the son of Ze·ru′iah was the head of another three; he brandished his spear over 300 slain, and he had a reputation like the three. <span id="chapter23_verse19"></span><strong><sup>19 </sup></strong>Although he was the most distinguished of the other three and he was their chief, he did not attain to the rank of the first three.</p>
<p id="p250" class="p250 sb"><span id="chapter23_verse20"></span><strong><sup>20 </sup></strong>Be·nai′ah the son of Je·hoi′a·da was a courageous man<span id="footnotesource167"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote167">*</a> who performed many exploits in Kab′ze·el. He struck down the two sons of Ar′i·el of Mo′ab, and he descended into a waterpit on a snowy day and killed a lion. <span id="chapter23_verse21"></span><strong><sup>21 </sup></strong>He also struck down an Egyptian man of extraordinary size. Though the Egyptian had a spear in his hand, he went against him with a rod and snatched the spear away from the Egyptian’s hand and killed him with his own spear. <span id="chapter23_verse22"></span><strong><sup>22 </sup></strong>These things Be·nai′ah the son of Je·hoi′a·da did, and he had a reputation like that of the three mighty warriors. <span id="chapter23_verse23"></span><strong><sup>23 </sup></strong>Although he was distinguished even more than the thirty, he did not attain to the rank of the three. However, David appointed him over his own bodyguard.</p>
<p id="p251" class="p251 sb"><span id="chapter23_verse24"></span><strong><sup>24 </sup></strong>As′a·hel the brother of Jo′ab was among the thirty: El·ha′nan the son of Do′do of Beth′le·hem, <span id="chapter23_verse25"></span><strong><sup>25 </sup></strong>Sham′mah the Ha′rod·ite, E·li′ka the Ha′rod·ite, <span id="chapter23_verse26"></span><strong><sup>26 </sup></strong>He′lez the Pal′tite, I′ra the son of Ik′kesh the Te·ko′ite, <span id="chapter23_verse27"></span><strong><sup>27 </sup></strong>Abi-e′zer the An′a·thoth·ite, Me·bun′nai the Hu′shath·ite, <span id="chapter23_verse28"></span><strong><sup>28 </sup></strong>Zal′mon the A·ho′hite, Ma′ha·rai the Ne·toph′a·thite, <span id="chapter23_verse29"></span><strong><sup>29 </sup></strong>He′leb the son of Ba′a·nah the Ne·toph′a·thite, It′tai the son of Ri′bai of Gib′e·ah of the Ben′ja·min·ites, <span id="chapter23_verse30"></span><strong><sup>30 </sup></strong>Be·nai′ah a Pir′a·thon·ite, Hid′dai of the wadis<span id="footnotesource168"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote168">*</a> of Ga′ash, <span id="chapter23_verse31"></span><strong><sup>31 </sup></strong>A′bi-al′bon the Ar′bath·ite, Az′ma·veth the Bar-hu′mite, <span id="chapter23_verse32"></span><strong><sup>32 </sup></strong>E·li′ah·ba the Sha·al′bo·nite, the sons of Ja′shen, Jon′a·than, <span id="chapter23_verse33"></span><strong><sup>33 </sup></strong>Sham′mah the Har′a·rite, A·hi′am the son of Sha′rar the Har′a·rite, <span id="page477"></span><span id="chapter23_verse34"></span><strong><sup>34 </sup></strong>E·liph′e·let the son of A·has′bai the son of the Ma·ac′a·thite, E·li′am the son of A·hith′o·phel the Gi′lon·ite, <span id="chapter23_verse35"></span><strong><sup>35 </sup></strong>Hez′ro the Car′mel·ite, Pa′a·rai the Ar′bite, <span id="chapter23_verse36"></span><strong><sup>36 </sup></strong>I′gal the son of Nathan of Zo′bah, Ba′ni the Gad′ite, <span id="chapter23_verse37"></span><strong><sup>37 </sup></strong>Ze′lek the Am′mon·ite, Na′ha·rai the Be·er′oth·ite, the armor-bearer of Jo′ab the son of Ze·ru′iah, <span id="chapter23_verse38"></span><strong><sup>38 </sup></strong>I′ra the Ith′rite, Ga′reb the Ith′rite, <span id="chapter23_verse39"></span><strong><sup>39 </sup></strong>and U·ri′ah the Hit′tite—37 in all.</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote161"><p><a href="044_2SA-.1-split23.xhtml#footnotesource161">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Sam. 23:1</span></a> Or “The pleasant one.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote162"><p><a href="044_2SA-.1-split23.xhtml#footnotesource162">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Sam. 23:10</span></a> Or “salvation.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote163"><p><a href="044_2SA-.1-split23.xhtml#footnotesource163">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Sam. 23:12</span></a> Or “salvation.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote164"><p><a href="044_2SA-.1-split23.xhtml#footnotesource164">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Sam. 23:13</span></a> Or “tent village.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote165"><p><a href="044_2SA-.1-split23.xhtml#footnotesource165">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Sam. 23:13</span></a> Or “Low Plain.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote166"><p><a href="044_2SA-.1-split23.xhtml#footnotesource166">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Sam. 23:17</span></a> Or “souls?”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote167"><p><a href="044_2SA-.1-split23.xhtml#footnotesource167">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Sam. 23:20</span></a> Lit., “the son of a man of valor.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote168"><p><a href="044_2SA-.1-split23.xhtml#footnotesource168">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Sam. 23:30</span></a> See Glossary.</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
