<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>1 Kings 16</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/docclass1.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
<p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">1 Kings</a>  <a href="biblechapternav11.xhtml">16</a> : <a href="bibleversenav11_16.xhtml">1 - 34</a></p>
<p id="p151" class="p151 sb"><span id="pos91860"></span><span id="chapter16"></span><span id="chapter16_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>16 </strong></span>The word of Jehovah against Ba′a·sha then came to Je′hu the son of Ha·na′ni, saying: <span id="chapter16_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2 </sup></strong>“I raised you up out of the dust and made you leader over my people Israel, but you kept walking in the way of Jer·o·bo′am and caused my people Israel to sin so that they offended me with their sins. <span id="chapter16_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3 </sup></strong>So I am making a clean sweep of Ba′a·sha and his house, and I will make his house like the house of Jer·o·bo′am the son of Ne′bat. <span id="chapter16_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4 </sup></strong>Anyone belonging to Ba′a·sha who dies in the city the dogs will eat; and anyone belonging to him who dies in the field the birds of the heavens will eat.”</p>
<p id="p152" class="p152 sb"><span id="chapter16_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5 </sup></strong>As for the rest of the history of Ba′a·sha, what he did and his mightiness, is it not written <span id="page510"></span>in the book of the history of the times of the kings of Israel? <span id="chapter16_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6 </sup></strong>Then Ba′a·sha was laid to rest with his forefathers and was buried in Tir′zah; and E′lah his son became king in his place. <span id="chapter16_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7 </sup></strong>Also through the prophet Je′hu the son of Ha·na′ni, Jehovah’s word came against Ba′a·sha and his house, both because of all the badness that he committed in the eyes of Jehovah by offending him with the work of his hands, becoming like the house of Jer·o·bo′am, and also because of his striking him<span id="footnotesource190"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote190">*</a> down.</p>
<p id="p153" class="p153 sb"><span id="pos93055"></span><span id="chapter16_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8 </sup></strong>In the 26th year of King A′sa of Judah, E′lah the son of Ba′a·sha became king over Israel in Tir′zah, and he reigned for two years. <span id="chapter16_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9 </sup></strong>His servant Zim′ri, the chief of half of his chariot forces, conspired against him while he was in Tir′zah drinking himself drunk at the house of Ar′za, who was over the household in Tir′zah. <span id="chapter16_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10 </sup></strong>Zim′ri came in and struck him down and put him to death in the 27th year of King A′sa of Judah, and he became king in his place. <span id="chapter16_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11 </sup></strong>When he became king, as soon as he sat down on his throne, he struck down all the house of Ba′a·sha. He did not spare a single male,<span id="footnotesource191"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote191">*</a> whether of his relatives<span id="footnotesource192"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote192">*</a> or of his friends. <span id="chapter16_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12 </sup></strong>Thus Zim′ri annihilated the whole house of Ba′a·sha, according to the word that Jehovah had spoken against Ba′a·sha through Je′hu the prophet. <span id="chapter16_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13 </sup></strong>This was for all the sins that Ba′a·sha and his son E′lah had committed and the sins they had caused Israel to commit by offending Jehovah the God of Israel with their worthless idols. <span id="chapter16_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14 </sup></strong>As for the rest of the history of E′lah, all that he did, is it not written in the book of the history of the times of the kings of Israel?</p>
<p id="p154" class="p154 sb"><span id="pos94200"></span><span id="chapter16_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15 </sup></strong>In the 27th year of King A′sa of Judah, Zim′ri became king for seven days in Tir′zah while the troops were camped against Gib′be·thon, which belonged to the Phi·lis′tines. <span id="chapter16_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16 </sup></strong>In time the troops who were encamped heard it being said: “Zim′ri has conspired and has also struck down the king.” So all Israel made Om′ri, the chief of the army, king over Israel on that day in the camp. <span id="chapter16_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17 </sup></strong>Om′ri and all Israel with him went up from Gib′be·thon and laid siege to Tir′zah. <span id="chapter16_verse18"></span><strong><sup>18 </sup></strong>When Zim′ri saw that the city had been captured, he went into the fortified tower of the king’s house<span id="footnotesource193"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote193">*</a> and burned the house down over himself, and he died. <span id="chapter16_verse19"></span><strong><sup>19 </sup></strong>This was for his own sins that he had committed by doing what was bad in the eyes of Jehovah by walking in the way of Jer·o·bo′am and for the sin he had caused Israel to commit. <span id="chapter16_verse20"></span><strong><sup>20 </sup></strong>As for the rest of the history of Zim′ri and his conspiracy, is it not written in the book of the history of the times of the kings of Israel?</p>
<p id="p155" class="p155 sb"><span id="pos95183"></span><span id="chapter16_verse21"></span><strong><sup>21 </sup></strong>It was then that the people of Israel were divided into two factions. One part of the people became followers of Tib′ni the son of Gi′nath, wanting to make him king, and the other part followed Om′ri. <span id="chapter16_verse22"></span><strong><sup>22 </sup></strong>But the people who were following Om′ri prevailed over the people following Tib′ni the son of Gi′nath. So Tib′ni died, and Om′ri became king.</p>
<p id="p156" class="p156 sb"><span id="chapter16_verse23"></span><strong><sup>23 </sup></strong>In the 31st year of King A′sa of Judah, Om′ri became king over Israel, and he reigned for 12 years. In Tir′zah he reigned for six years. <span id="chapter16_verse24"></span><strong><sup>24 </sup></strong>He <span id="page511"></span>bought the mountain of Sa·mar′i·a from She′mer for two talents<span id="footnotesource194"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote194">*</a> of silver, and he built a city on the mountain. He named the city that he built Sa·mar′i·a,<span id="footnotesource195"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote195">*</a> after She′mer the owner<span id="footnotesource196"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote196">*</a> of the mountain. <span id="chapter16_verse25"></span><strong><sup>25 </sup></strong>Om′ri kept doing what was bad in the eyes of Jehovah, and he was worse than all who were prior to him. <span id="chapter16_verse26"></span><strong><sup>26 </sup></strong>He walked in all the ways of Jer·o·bo′am the son of Ne′bat and in the sin he had caused Israel to commit by offending Jehovah the God of Israel with their worthless idols. <span id="chapter16_verse27"></span><strong><sup>27 </sup></strong>As for the rest of the history of Om′ri, what he did and his mighty exploits, is it not written in the book of the history of the times of the kings of Israel? <span id="chapter16_verse28"></span><strong><sup>28 </sup></strong>Then Om′ri was laid to rest with his forefathers and was buried in Sa·mar′i·a; and his son A′hab became king in his place.</p>
<p id="p157" class="p157 sb"><span id="pos96486"></span><span id="chapter16_verse29"></span><strong><sup>29 </sup></strong>A′hab the son of Om′ri became king over Israel in the 38th year of King A′sa of Judah, and A′hab the son of Om′ri reigned over Israel in Sa·mar′i·a for 22 years. <span id="chapter16_verse30"></span><strong><sup>30 </sup></strong>A′hab the son of Om′ri was worse in the eyes of Jehovah than all those who were prior to him. <span id="chapter16_verse31"></span><strong><sup>31 </sup></strong>As if it were a trivial thing for him to walk in the sins of Jer·o·bo′am the son of Ne′bat, he also took as wife Jez′e·bel the daughter of Eth·ba′al, the king of the Si·do′ni·ans, and began to serve Ba′al and to bow down to him. <span id="chapter16_verse32"></span><strong><sup>32 </sup></strong>Further, he set up an altar to Ba′al at the house<span id="footnotesource197"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote197">*</a> of Ba′al that he built in Sa·mar′i·a. <span id="chapter16_verse33"></span><strong><sup>33 </sup></strong>A′hab also made the sacred pole.<span id="footnotesource198"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote198">*</a> A′hab did more to offend Jehovah the God of Israel than all the kings of Israel prior to him.</p>
<p id="p158" class="p158 sb"><span id="pos97230"></span><span id="chapter16_verse34"></span><strong><sup>34 </sup></strong>In his days, Hi′el the Beth′el·ite rebuilt Jer′i·cho. At the cost of A·bi′ram his firstborn he laid its foundation, and at the cost of Se′gub his youngest he put up its doors, according to the word of Jehovah spoken through Joshua the son of Nun.</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote190"><p><a href="046_1KI-.1-split16.xhtml#footnotesource190">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Ki. 16:7</span></a> That is, Nadab, the son of Jeroboam.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote191"><p><a href="046_1KI-.1-split16.xhtml#footnotesource191">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Ki. 16:11</span></a> Lit., “anyone urinating against a wall.” A Hebrew expression of contempt referring to males.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote192"><p><a href="046_1KI-.1-split16.xhtml#footnotesource192">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Ki. 16:11</span></a> Or “his avengers of blood.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote193"><p><a href="046_1KI-.1-split16.xhtml#footnotesource193">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Ki. 16:18</span></a> Or “palace.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote194"><p><a href="046_1KI-.1-split16.xhtml#footnotesource194">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Ki. 16:24</span></a> A talent equaled 34.2 kg (1,101 oz t). See <a href="193_APPB.14B.xhtml">App. B14</a>.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote195"><p><a href="046_1KI-.1-split16.xhtml#footnotesource195">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Ki. 16:24</span></a> Meaning “Belonging to the Clan Shemer.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote196"><p><a href="046_1KI-.1-split16.xhtml#footnotesource196">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Ki. 16:24</span></a> Lit., “lord.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote197"><p><a href="046_1KI-.1-split16.xhtml#footnotesource197">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Ki. 16:32</span></a> Or “temple.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote198"><p><a href="046_1KI-.1-split16.xhtml#footnotesource198">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Ki. 16:33</span></a> See Glossary.</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
