<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>1 Kings 4</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/docclass1.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
<p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">1 Kings</a>  <a href="biblechapternav11.xhtml">4</a> : <a href="bibleversenav11_4.xhtml">1 - 34</a></p>
<p id="p33" class="p33 sb"><span id="pos21192"></span><span id="chapter4"></span><span id="chapter4_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>4 </strong></span>King Sol′o·mon ruled over all Israel. <span id="chapter4_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2 </sup></strong>These were his high officials:<span id="footnotesource31"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote31">*</a> Az·a·ri′ah the son of Za′dok was the priest; <span id="chapter4_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3 </sup></strong>El·i·hor′eph and A·hi′jah the sons of Shi′sha were secretaries; Je·hosh′a·phat the son of A·hi′lud was the recorder; <span id="chapter4_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4 </sup></strong>Be·nai′ah the son of Je·hoi′a·da was in charge of the army; Za′dok and A·bi′a·thar were priests; <span id="chapter4_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5 </sup></strong>Az·a·ri′ah the son of Nathan was over the deputies; Za′bud the son of Nathan was a priest and the king’s friend; <span id="chapter4_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6 </sup></strong>A·hi′shar was over the household; and Ad·o·ni′ram the son of Ab′da was over those conscripted for forced labor.</p>
<p id="p34" class="p34 sb"><span id="chapter4_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7 </sup></strong>Sol′o·mon had 12 deputies in charge of all Israel who provided the king and his household with food. Each one was responsible for providing the food for one month of the year. <span id="chapter4_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8 </sup></strong>These were their names: The son of Hur, in the mountainous region of E′phra·im; <span id="chapter4_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9 </sup></strong>the son of De′ker, in Ma′kaz, Sha·al′bim, Beth-she′mesh, and E′lon-beth-ha′nan; <span id="chapter4_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10 </sup></strong>the son of He′sed, in A·rub′both (he <span id="page487"></span>had So′coh and all the land of He′pher); <span id="chapter4_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11 </sup></strong>the son of A·bin′a·dab, in all the slopes of Dor (Sol′o·mon’s daughter Ta′phath became his wife); <span id="chapter4_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12 </sup></strong>Ba′a·na the son of A·hi′lud, in Ta′a·nach, Me·gid′do, and all Beth-she′an, which is beside Zar′e·than below Jez′re·el, from Beth-she′an to A′bel-me·ho′lah to the region of Jok′me·am; <span id="chapter4_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13 </sup></strong>the son of Ge′ber, in Ra′moth-gil′e·ad (he had the tent villages of Ja′ir the son of Ma·nas′seh, which are in Gil′e·ad; he also had the region of Ar′gob, which is in Ba′shan: 60 large cities with walls and copper bars); <span id="chapter4_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14 </sup></strong>A·hin′a·dab the son of Id′do, in Ma·ha·na′im; <span id="chapter4_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15 </sup></strong>A·him′a·az, in Naph′ta·li (he took Bas′e·math, another of Sol′o·mon’s daughters, as his wife); <span id="chapter4_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16 </sup></strong>Ba′a·na the son of Hu′shai, in Ash′er and Be·a′loth; <span id="chapter4_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17 </sup></strong>Je·hosh′a·phat the son of Pa·ru′ah, in Is′sa·char; <span id="chapter4_verse18"></span><strong><sup>18 </sup></strong>Shim′e·i the son of E′la, in Benjamin; <span id="chapter4_verse19"></span><strong><sup>19 </sup></strong>Ge′ber the son of U′ri, in the land of Gil′e·ad, the land of Si′hon king of the Am′or·ites and of Og king of Ba′shan. There was also one deputy in charge of all these other deputies in the land.</p>
<p id="p35" class="p35 sb"><span id="pos23273"></span><span id="chapter4_verse20"></span><strong><sup>20 </sup></strong>Judah and Israel were as numerous as the grains of sand by the sea; they were eating and drinking and rejoicing.</p>
<p id="p36" class="p36 sb"><span id="chapter4_verse21"></span><strong><sup>21 </sup></strong>Sol′o·mon ruled over all the kingdoms from the River<span id="footnotesource32"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote32">*</a> to the land of the Phi·lis′tines and to the boundary of Egypt. They brought tribute and served Sol′o·mon all the days of his life.</p>
<p id="p37" class="p37 sb"><span id="chapter4_verse22"></span><strong><sup>22 </sup></strong>Sol′o·mon’s food for each day was 30 cor measures<span id="footnotesource33"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote33">*</a> of fine flour and 60 cor measures of flour, <span id="chapter4_verse23"></span><strong><sup>23 </sup></strong>10 fattened cattle, 20 pastured cattle, and 100 sheep, besides some stags, gazelles, roebucks, and fattened cuckoos. <span id="chapter4_verse24"></span><strong><sup>24 </sup></strong>For he controlled everything this side of the River,<span id="footnotesource34"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote34">*</a> from Tiph′sah to Gaz′a, including all the kings on this side of the River; and he enjoyed peace in every region, all around him. <span id="pos24005"></span><span id="chapter4_verse25"></span><strong><sup>25 </sup></strong>Judah and Israel lived in security, everyone under his own vine and under his own fig tree, from Dan to Be′er-she′ba, all the days of Sol′o·mon.</p>
<p id="p38" class="p38 sb"><span id="chapter4_verse26"></span><strong><sup>26 </sup></strong>And Sol′o·mon had 4,000<span id="footnotesource35"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote35">*</a> stalls of horses for his chariots and 12,000 horses.<span id="footnotesource36"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote36">*</a></p>
<p id="p39" class="p39 sb"><span id="chapter4_verse27"></span><strong><sup>27 </sup></strong>These deputies supplied food to King Sol′o·mon and to everyone who ate at the table of King Sol′o·mon. Each was responsible for his month and saw to it that nothing was lacking. <span id="chapter4_verse28"></span><strong><sup>28 </sup></strong>They also brought barley and straw wherever it was needed for the horses and for the teams of horses, each according to his quota.</p>
<p id="p40" class="p40 sb"><span id="pos24567"></span><span id="chapter4_verse29"></span><strong><sup>29 </sup></strong>And God gave Sol′o·mon wisdom and discernment in very great measure and a broadness of heart<span id="footnotesource37"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote37">*</a> like the sand on the seashore. <span id="chapter4_verse30"></span><strong><sup>30 </sup></strong>Sol′o·mon’s wisdom surpassed the wisdom of all the people of the East and all the wisdom of Egypt. <span id="chapter4_verse31"></span><strong><sup>31 </sup></strong>He was wiser than any other man, wiser than E′than the Ez′ra·hite and He′man, Cal′col, and Dar′da, the sons of Ma′hol; his fame spread among all the surrounding nations. <span id="chapter4_verse32"></span><strong><sup>32 </sup></strong>He composed<span id="footnotesource38"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote38">*</a> 3,000 proverbs and his songs numbered 1,005. <span id="chapter4_verse33"></span><strong><sup>33 </sup></strong>He would speak about the trees, from the cedar in Leb′a·non to the hyssop that grows on the wall; he would speak about <span id="page488"></span>the animals, the birds,<span id="footnotesource39"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote39">*</a> the creeping things,<span id="footnotesource40"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote40">*</a> and the fish. <span id="chapter4_verse34"></span><strong><sup>34 </sup></strong>People from all the nations came to hear Sol′o·mon’s wisdom, including kings from all over the earth who had heard about his wisdom.</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote31"><p><a href="046_1KI-.1-split4.xhtml#footnotesource31">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Ki. 4:2</span></a> Or “his princes.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote32"><p><a href="046_1KI-.1-split4.xhtml#footnotesource32">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Ki. 4:21</span></a> That is, the Euphrates.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote33"><p><a href="046_1KI-.1-split4.xhtml#footnotesource33">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Ki. 4:22</span></a> A cor equaled 220 L (200 dry qt). See <a href="192_APPB.14A.xhtml">App. B14</a>.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote34"><p><a href="046_1KI-.1-split4.xhtml#footnotesource34">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Ki. 4:24</span></a> That is, west of the Euphrates.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote35"><p><a href="046_1KI-.1-split4.xhtml#footnotesource35">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Ki. 4:26</span></a> This figure is found in some manuscripts and in the parallel account. Other manuscripts say 40,000.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote36"><p><a href="046_1KI-.1-split4.xhtml#footnotesource36">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Ki. 4:26</span></a> Or “horsemen.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote37"><p><a href="046_1KI-.1-split4.xhtml#footnotesource37">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Ki. 4:29</span></a> Or “heart with understanding.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote38"><p><a href="046_1KI-.1-split4.xhtml#footnotesource38">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Ki. 4:32</span></a> Or “spoke.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote39"><p><a href="046_1KI-.1-split4.xhtml#footnotesource39">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Ki. 4:33</span></a> Or “flying creatures.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote40"><p><a href="046_1KI-.1-split4.xhtml#footnotesource40">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Ki. 4:33</span></a> Possibly including reptiles and insects.</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
