<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>2 Kings 15</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/docclass1.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
<p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">2 Kings</a>  <a href="biblechapternav12.xhtml">15</a> : <a href="bibleversenav12_15.xhtml">1 - 38</a></p>
<p id="p120" class="p120 sb"><span id="pos70309"></span><span id="chapter15"></span><span id="chapter15_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>15 </strong></span>In the 27th year of King Jer·o·bo′am<span id="footnotesource112"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote112">*</a> of Israel, Az·a·ri′ah<span id="footnotesource113"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote113">*</a> the son of King Am·a·zi′ah of Judah became king. <span id="chapter15_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2 </sup></strong>He was 16 years old when he became king, and he reigned for 52 years in Jerusalem. His mother’s name was Je·co·li′ah of Jerusalem. <span id="chapter15_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3 </sup></strong>He continued to do what was right in Jehovah’s eyes, just as his father Am·a·zi′ah had done. <span id="chapter15_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4 </sup></strong>However, the high places were not removed, and the people were still sacrificing and making sacrificial smoke on the high places. <span id="chapter15_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5 </sup></strong>Jehovah afflicted the king, and he remained a leper until the day of his death; and he stayed in a separate house, while the king’s son Jo′tham was in charge of the house,<span id="footnotesource114"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote114">*</a> judging the people of the land. <span id="chapter15_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6 </sup></strong>As for the rest of the history of Az·a·ri′ah, all that he did, is it not written in the book of the history of the times of the kings of Judah? <span id="chapter15_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7 </sup></strong>Then Az·a·ri′ah was laid to rest with <span id="page547"></span>his forefathers, and they buried him with his forefathers in the City of David; and his son Jo′tham became king in his place.</p>
<p id="p121" class="p121 sb"><span id="pos71327"></span><span id="chapter15_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8 </sup></strong>In the 38th year of King Az·a·ri′ah of Judah, Zech·a·ri′ah the son of Jer·o·bo′am became king over Israel in Sa·mar′i·a, and he reigned for six months. <span id="chapter15_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9 </sup></strong>He did what was bad in Jehovah’s eyes, just as his forefathers had done. He did not depart from the sins that Jer·o·bo′am the son of Ne′bat had caused Israel to commit. <span id="chapter15_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10 </sup></strong>Then Shal′lum the son of Ja′besh conspired against him and struck him down at Ib′le·am. After putting him to death, he became king in his place. <span id="chapter15_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11 </sup></strong>As for the rest of the history of Zech·a·ri′ah, it is written in the book of the history of the times of the kings of Israel. <span id="chapter15_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12 </sup></strong>That fulfilled Jehovah’s word spoken to Je′hu: “Four generations of your sons will sit on the throne of Israel.” And that is how it happened.</p>
<p id="p122" class="p122 sb"><span id="pos72096"></span><span id="chapter15_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13 </sup></strong>Shal′lum the son of Ja′besh became king in the 39th year of King Uz·zi′ah of Judah, and he reigned for a full month in Sa·mar′i·a. <span id="chapter15_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14 </sup></strong>Then Men′a·hem the son of Ga′di came up from Tir′zah to Sa·mar′i·a and struck down Shal′lum the son of Ja′besh in Sa·mar′i·a. After putting him to death, he became king in his place. <span id="chapter15_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15 </sup></strong>As for the rest of the history of Shal′lum and the conspiracy that he formed, it is written in the book of the history of the times of the kings of Israel. <span id="chapter15_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16 </sup></strong>It was then that Men′a·hem came from Tir′zah and struck down Tiph′sah and all who were in it and its territory, because it did not open its gates to him. He struck it down and ripped open its pregnant women.</p>
<p id="p123" class="p123 sb"><span id="pos72805"></span><span id="chapter15_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17 </sup></strong>In the 39th year of King Az·a·ri′ah of Judah, Men′a·hem the son of Ga′di became king over Israel, and he reigned for ten years in Sa·mar′i·a. <span id="chapter15_verse18"></span><strong><sup>18 </sup></strong>He continued to do what was bad in Jehovah’s eyes. He did not depart from all the sins that Jer·o·bo′am the son of Ne′bat had caused Israel to commit, all his days. <span id="chapter15_verse19"></span><strong><sup>19 </sup></strong>King Pul of As·syr′i·a came into the land, and Men′a·hem gave Pul 1,000 talents<span id="footnotesource115"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote115">*</a> of silver in return for his support in strengthening his hold on the kingdom. <span id="chapter15_verse20"></span><strong><sup>20 </sup></strong>So Men′a·hem raised the silver from Israel by exacting it from the prominent, wealthy men. He gave the king of As·syr′i·a 50 silver shekels<span id="footnotesource116"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote116">*</a> for each man. Then the king of As·syr′i·a turned back and did not stay in the land. <span id="chapter15_verse21"></span><strong><sup>21 </sup></strong>As for the rest of the history of Men′a·hem, all that he did, is it not written in the book of the history of the times of the kings of Israel? <span id="chapter15_verse22"></span><strong><sup>22 </sup></strong>Then Men′a·hem was laid to rest with his forefathers; and his son Pek·a·hi′ah became king in his place.</p>
<p id="p124" class="p124 sb"><span id="pos73791"></span><span id="chapter15_verse23"></span><strong><sup>23 </sup></strong>In the 50th year of King Az·a·ri′ah of Judah, Pek·a·hi′ah the son of Men′a·hem became king over Israel in Sa·mar′i·a, and he reigned for two years. <span id="chapter15_verse24"></span><strong><sup>24 </sup></strong>He continued to do what was bad in Jehovah’s eyes. He did not depart from the sins that Jer·o·bo′am the son of Ne′bat had caused Israel to commit. <span id="chapter15_verse25"></span><strong><sup>25 </sup></strong>Then his adjutant Pe′kah the son of Rem·a·li′ah conspired against him and struck him down in Sa·mar′i·a in the fortified tower of the king’s house<span id="footnotesource117"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote117">*</a> with Ar′gob and A·ri′eh. He had 50 men of Gil′e·ad with him; and after he put him to death, he became king in his place. <span id="chapter15_verse26"></span><strong><sup>26 </sup></strong>As for the rest of the history of Pek·a·hi′ah, <span id="page548"></span>all that he did, it is written in the book of the history of the times of the kings of Israel.</p>
<p id="p125" class="p125 sb"><span id="pos74530"></span><span id="chapter15_verse27"></span><strong><sup>27 </sup></strong>In the 52nd year of King Az·a·ri′ah of Judah, Pe′kah the son of Rem·a·li′ah became king over Israel in Sa·mar′i·a, and he reigned for 20 years. <span id="chapter15_verse28"></span><strong><sup>28 </sup></strong>He continued to do what was bad in Jehovah’s eyes, and he did not depart from the sins that Jer·o·bo′am the son of Ne′bat had caused Israel to commit. <span id="chapter15_verse29"></span><strong><sup>29 </sup></strong>In the days of King Pe′kah of Israel, King Tig′lath-pil·e′ser of As·syr′i·a invaded and captured I′jon, A′bel-beth-ma′a·cah, Ja·no′ah, Ke′desh, Ha′zor, Gil′e·ad, and Gal′i·lee—all the land of Naph′ta·li—and he took the inhabitants into exile in As·syr′i·a. <span id="chapter15_verse30"></span><strong><sup>30 </sup></strong>Then Ho·she′a the son of E′lah formed a conspiracy against Pe′kah the son of Rem·a·li′ah, and he struck him and put him to death; and he became king in his place in the 20th year of Jo′tham the son of Uz·zi′ah. <span id="chapter15_verse31"></span><strong><sup>31 </sup></strong>As for the rest of the history of Pe′kah, all that he did, it is written in the book of the history of the times of the kings of Israel.</p>
<p id="p126" class="p126 sb"><span id="pos75475"></span><span id="chapter15_verse32"></span><strong><sup>32 </sup></strong>In the second year of Pe′kah the son of Rem·a·li′ah the king of Israel, Jo′tham the son of King Uz·zi′ah of Judah became king. <span id="chapter15_verse33"></span><strong><sup>33 </sup></strong>He was 25 years old when he became king, and he reigned for 16 years in Jerusalem. His mother’s name was Je·ru′sha the daughter of Za′dok. <span id="chapter15_verse34"></span><strong><sup>34 </sup></strong>He kept doing what was right in Jehovah’s eyes, just as his father Uz·zi′ah had done. <span id="chapter15_verse35"></span><strong><sup>35 </sup></strong>However, the high places were not removed, and the people were still sacrificing and making sacrificial smoke on the high places. He was the one who built the upper gate of the house of Jehovah. <span id="chapter15_verse36"></span><strong><sup>36 </sup></strong>As for the rest of the history of Jo′tham, what he did, is it not written in the book of the history of the times of the kings of Judah? <span id="chapter15_verse37"></span><strong><sup>37 </sup></strong>In those days Jehovah began sending Re′zin the king of Syria and Pe′kah the son of Rem·a·li′ah against Judah. <span id="chapter15_verse38"></span><strong><sup>38 </sup></strong>Then Jo′tham was laid to rest with his forefathers and was buried with his forefathers in the City of David his forefather. And his son A′haz became king in his place.</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote112"><p><a href="048_2KI-.1-split15.xhtml#footnotesource112">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Ki. 15:1</span></a> That is, Jeroboam II.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote113"><p><a href="048_2KI-.1-split15.xhtml#footnotesource113">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Ki. 15:1</span></a> Meaning “Jehovah Has Helped.” He is called Uzziah at 2Ki 15:13; 2Ch 26:1-23; Isa 6:1; and Zec 14:5.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote114"><p><a href="048_2KI-.1-split15.xhtml#footnotesource114">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Ki. 15:5</span></a> Or “palace.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote115"><p><a href="048_2KI-.1-split15.xhtml#footnotesource115">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Ki. 15:19</span></a> A talent equaled 34.2 kg (1,101 oz t). See <a href="193_APPB.14B.xhtml">App. B14</a>.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote116"><p><a href="048_2KI-.1-split15.xhtml#footnotesource116">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Ki. 15:20</span></a> A shekel equaled 11.4 g (0.367 oz t). See <a href="193_APPB.14B.xhtml">App. B14</a>.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote117"><p><a href="048_2KI-.1-split15.xhtml#footnotesource117">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Ki. 15:25</span></a> Or “palace.”</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
