<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>2 Kings 16</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/docclass1.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
<p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">2 Kings</a>  <a href="biblechapternav12.xhtml">16</a> : <a href="bibleversenav12_16.xhtml">1 - 20</a></p>
<p id="p127" class="p127 sb"><span id="pos76492"></span><span id="chapter16"></span><span id="chapter16_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>16 </strong></span>In the 17th year of Pe′kah the son of Rem·a·li′ah, A′haz the son of King Jo′tham of Judah became king. <span id="chapter16_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2 </sup></strong>A′haz was 20 years old when he became king, and he reigned for 16 years in Jerusalem. He did not do what was right in the eyes of Jehovah his God as David his forefather had done. <span id="chapter16_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3 </sup></strong>Instead, he walked in the way of the kings of Israel, and he even made his own son pass through the fire, following the detestable practices of the nations that Jehovah had driven out from before the Israelites. <span id="chapter16_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4 </sup></strong>He also kept sacrificing and making sacrificial smoke on the high places, on the hills, and under every luxuriant tree.</p>
<p id="p128" class="p128 sb"><span id="chapter16_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5 </sup></strong>It was then that King Re′zin of Syria and Pe′kah son of Rem·a·li′ah the king of Israel came up to wage war against Jerusalem. They laid siege against A′haz but were not able to capture the city. <span id="chapter16_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6 </sup></strong>At that time King Re′zin of Syria restored E′lath to E′dom, after which he drove the Jews<span id="footnotesource118"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote118">*</a> out of E′lath. And the E′dom·ites entered E′lath, and they have occupied it down to this day. <span id="pos77518"></span><span id="chapter16_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7 </sup></strong>So A′haz sent messengers to King Tig′lath-pil·e′ser of As·syr′i·a, saying: “I am your servant and your son. Come up and save me from the hand of the king of Syria and the hand of the king of Israel, who are attacking me.” <span id="chapter16_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8 </sup></strong>A′haz then took the silver and the gold that was <span id="page549"></span>to be found at the house of Jehovah and in the treasuries of the king’s house<span id="footnotesource119"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote119">*</a> and sent the king of As·syr′i·a a bribe. <span id="chapter16_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9 </sup></strong>The king of As·syr′i·a responded to his request, and he went up to Damascus and captured it and led its people into exile to Kir, and he put Re′zin to death.</p>
<p id="p129" class="p129 sb"><span id="pos78087"></span><span id="chapter16_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10 </sup></strong>Then King A′haz went to meet King Tig′lath-pil·e′ser of As·syr′i·a at Damascus. When he saw the altar that was in Damascus, King A′haz sent U·ri′jah the priest a plan of the altar, showing its pattern and how it was made. <span id="chapter16_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11 </sup></strong>U·ri′jah the priest built an altar according to all the directions that King A′haz had sent from Damascus. U·ri′jah the priest finished building it before King A′haz returned from Damascus. <span id="chapter16_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12 </sup></strong>When the king returned from Damascus and saw the altar, he approached the altar and made offerings on it. <span id="chapter16_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13 </sup></strong>And on that altar he continued to make his burnt offerings and his grain offerings smoke; he also poured out his drink offerings and sprinkled the blood of his communion sacrifices on it. <span id="chapter16_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14 </sup></strong>Then he moved the copper altar that was before Jehovah from its place in front of the house, from between his own altar and the house of Jehovah, and he put it at the north side of his own altar. <span id="chapter16_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15 </sup></strong>King A′haz commanded U·ri′jah the priest: “Make the morning burnt offering smoke on the great altar, also the evening grain offering, the king’s burnt offering, and his grain offering, as well as the burnt offerings, the grain offerings, and the drink offerings of all the people. You should also sprinkle on it all the blood of the burnt offerings and all the blood of the other sacrifices. As for the copper altar, let me decide what to do with it.” <span id="chapter16_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16 </sup></strong>And U·ri′jah the priest did everything that King A′haz had commanded.</p>
<p id="p130" class="p130 sb"><span id="chapter16_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17 </sup></strong>Furthermore, King A′haz cut the side panels of the carriages into pieces and removed the basins from them, and he took the Sea down off the copper bulls that supported it and put it on a stone pavement. <span id="chapter16_verse18"></span><strong><sup>18 </sup></strong>And the covered structure for the Sabbath that had been built in the house and the king’s outer entryway he shifted away from the house of Jehovah; he did so because of the king of As·syr′i·a.</p>
<p id="p131" class="p131 sb"><span id="pos79967"></span><span id="chapter16_verse19"></span><strong><sup>19 </sup></strong>As for the rest of the history of A′haz, what he did, is it not written in the book of the history of the times of the kings of Judah? <span id="chapter16_verse20"></span><strong><sup>20 </sup></strong>Then A′haz was laid to rest with his forefathers and was buried with his forefathers in the City of David; and his son Hez·e·ki′ah<span id="footnotesource120"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote120">*</a> became king in his place.</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote118"><p><a href="048_2KI-.1-split16.xhtml#footnotesource118">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Ki. 16:6</span></a> Or “the men of Judah.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote119"><p><a href="048_2KI-.1-split16.xhtml#footnotesource119">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Ki. 16:8</span></a> Or “palace.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote120"><p><a href="048_2KI-.1-split16.xhtml#footnotesource120">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Ki. 16:20</span></a> Meaning “Jehovah Strengthens.”</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
