<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>1 Chronicles 24</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/docclass1.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
<p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">1 Chronicles</a>  <a href="biblechapternav13.xhtml">24</a> : <a href="bibleversenav13_24.xhtml">1 - 31</a></p>
<p id="p215" class="p215 sb"><span id="pos93971"></span><span id="chapter24"></span><span id="chapter24_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>24 </strong></span>Now the divisions of the descendants of Aaron were these: The sons of Aaron were Na′dab, A·bi′hu, El·e·a′zar, and Ith′a·mar. <span id="chapter24_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2 </sup></strong>However, Na′dab and A·bi′hu died before their father, and they did not have any sons; but El·e·a′zar and Ith′a·mar continued to serve as priests. <span id="chapter24_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3 </sup></strong>David, along with Za′dok from the sons of El·e·a′zar and A·him′e·lech from the sons of Ith′a·mar, made divisions of them for the office of their service. <span id="chapter24_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4 </sup></strong>Since the sons of El·e·a′zar had more headmen than the sons of Ith′a·mar had, they divided them accordingly: The sons of El·e·a′zar had 16 as heads of their paternal houses, and the sons of Ith′a·mar had 8 as heads of their paternal houses.</p>
<p id="p216" class="p216 sb"><span id="chapter24_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5 </sup></strong>Further, they divided them by lots, the one group along with the other, for there were chiefs of the holy place and chiefs of the true God from both the sons of El·e·a′zar and the sons of Ith′a·mar. <span id="chapter24_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6 </sup></strong>Then She·mai′ah the son of Ne·than′el the secretary of the Levites recorded their names before the king, the princes, Za′dok the priest, A·him′e·lech the son of A·bi′a·thar, and the heads of the paternal houses of the priests and of the Levites, one paternal house being selected for El·e·a′zar and one being selected for Ith′a·mar.</p>
<p id="p217" class="p217 sb"><span id="chapter24_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7 </sup></strong>The first lot came out to Je·hoi′a·rib; the second to Je·da′iah, <span id="chapter24_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8 </sup></strong>the third to Ha′rim, the fourth to Se·o′rim, <span id="chapter24_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9 </sup></strong>the fifth to Mal·chi′jah, the sixth to Mij′a·min, <span id="chapter24_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10 </sup></strong>the seventh to Hak′koz, the eighth to A·bi′jah, <span id="chapter24_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11 </sup></strong>the ninth to Jesh′u·a, the tenth to Shec·a·ni′ah, <span id="chapter24_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12 </sup></strong>the 11th to E·li′a·shib, the 12th to Ja′kim, <span id="chapter24_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13 </sup></strong>the 13th to Hup′pah, the 14th to Je·sheb′e·ab, <span id="chapter24_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14 </sup></strong>the 15th to Bil′gah, the 16th to Im′mer, <span id="chapter24_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15 </sup></strong>the 17th to He′zir, the 18th to Hap′piz·zez, <span id="chapter24_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16 </sup></strong>the 19th to Peth·a·hi′ah, the 20th to Je·hez′kel, <span id="chapter24_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17 </sup></strong>the 21st to Ja′chin, the 22nd to Ga′mul, <span id="chapter24_verse18"></span><strong><sup>18 </sup></strong>the 23rd to De·la′iah, the 24th to Ma·a·zi′ah.</p>
<p id="p218" class="p218 sb"><span id="chapter24_verse19"></span><strong><sup>19 </sup></strong>These were their offices for their service when they would come into the house of Jehovah according to the procedure set by their forefather Aaron, just as Jehovah the God of Israel had commanded him.</p>
<p id="p219" class="p219 sb"><span id="pos96056"></span><span id="chapter24_verse20"></span><strong><sup>20 </sup></strong>And of the rest of the Levites: of the sons of Am′ram, there was Shu′ba·el; of the sons of Shu′ba·el, Jeh·de′iah; <span id="chapter24_verse21"></span><strong><sup>21 </sup></strong>of Re·ha·bi′ah: of the sons of Re·ha·bi′ah, Is·shi′ah the head; <span id="chapter24_verse22"></span><strong><sup>22 </sup></strong>of the Iz′har·ites, She·lo′moth; of the sons of She·lo′moth, Ja′hath; <span id="chapter24_verse23"></span><strong><sup>23 </sup></strong>and of the sons of Heb′ron, Je·ri′ah the head, Am·a·ri′ah the second, Ja·ha·zi′el the third, Jek·a·me′am the fourth; <span id="chapter24_verse24"></span><strong><sup>24 </sup></strong>of the sons of Uz′zi·el, Mi′cah; of the sons of Mi′cah, Sha′mir. <span id="chapter24_verse25"></span><strong><sup>25 </sup></strong>The brother of Mi′cah was Is·shi′ah; of the sons of Is·shi′ah, Zech·a·ri′ah.</p>
<p id="p220" class="p220 sb"><span id="chapter24_verse26"></span><strong><sup>26 </sup></strong>The sons of Me·rar′i were Mah′li and Mu′shi; of the sons of Ja·a·zi′ah, Be′no. <span id="chapter24_verse27"></span><strong><sup>27 </sup></strong>The sons of Me·rar′i: of Ja·a·zi′ah, Be′no, Sho′ham, Zac′cur, and Ib′ri; <span id="chapter24_verse28"></span><strong><sup>28 </sup></strong>of Mah′li, El·e·a′zar, who did not have any sons; <span id="chapter24_verse29"></span><strong><sup>29 </sup></strong>of Kish: the sons of Kish, Je·rah′me·el; <span id="page598"></span><span id="chapter24_verse30"></span><strong><sup>30 </sup></strong>and the sons of Mu′shi were Mah′li, E′der, and Jer′i·moth.</p>
<p id="p221" class="p221 sb">These were the sons of Le′vi by their paternal houses. <span id="chapter24_verse31"></span><strong><sup>31 </sup></strong>And they also cast lots just as their brothers the sons of Aaron did in the presence of King David, Za′dok, A·him′e·lech, and the heads of the paternal houses of the priests and of the Levites. Regarding the paternal houses, the head one was just as his younger brother.</p>
</body>
</html>
