<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>1 Chronicles 2</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/docclass1.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
<p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">1 Chronicles</a>  <a href="biblechapternav13.xhtml">2</a> : <a href="bibleversenav13_2.xhtml">1 - 55</a></p>
<p id="p37" class="p37 sb"><span id="pos4564"></span><span id="chapter2"></span><span id="chapter2_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>2 </strong></span>These were the sons of Israel: Reu′ben, Sim′e·on, Le′vi, Judah, Is′sa·char, Zeb′u·lun, <span id="chapter2_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2 </sup></strong>Dan, Joseph, Benjamin, Naph′ta·li, Gad, and Ash′er.</p>
<p id="p38" class="p38 sb"><span id="pos4723"></span><span id="chapter2_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3 </sup></strong>The sons of Judah were Er, O′nan, and She′lah. These three were born to him from Shu′a’s daughter, the Ca′naan·it·ess. But Er, Judah’s firstborn, was displeasing to Jehovah, so He put him to death. <span id="chapter2_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4 </sup></strong>Ta′mar, Judah’s daughter-in-law, bore to him Pe′rez and Ze′rah. Judah had five sons in all.</p>
<p id="p39" class="p39 sb"><span id="chapter2_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5 </sup></strong>The sons of Pe′rez were Hez′ron and Ha′mul.</p>
<p id="p40" class="p40 sb"><span id="chapter2_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6 </sup></strong>The sons of Ze′rah were Zim′ri, E′than, He′man, Cal′col, and Da′ra. There were five of them in all.</p>
<p id="p41" class="p41 sb"><span id="chapter2_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7 </sup></strong>The son<span id="footnotesource8"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote8">*</a> of Car′mi was A′char,<span id="footnotesource9"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote9">*</a> who brought disaster<span id="footnotesource10"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote10">*</a> on Israel, who was unfaithful with regard to what had been devoted to destruction.</p>
<p id="p42" class="p42 sb"><span id="chapter2_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8 </sup></strong>The son<span id="footnotesource11"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote11">*</a> of E′than was Az·a·ri′ah.</p>
<p id="p43" class="p43 sb"><span id="chapter2_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9 </sup></strong>The sons of Hez′ron who were born to him were Je·rah′me·el, Ram, and Che·lu′bai.<span id="footnotesource12"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote12">*</a></p>
<p id="p44" class="p44 sb"><span id="chapter2_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10 </sup></strong>Ram became father to Am·min′a·dab. Am·min′a·dab became father to Nah′shon the chieftain of the descendants of Judah. <span id="chapter2_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11 </sup></strong>Nah′shon became father to Sal′ma. Sal′ma became father to Bo′az. <span id="chapter2_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12 </sup></strong>Bo′az became father to O′bed. O′bed became father to Jes′se. <span id="chapter2_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13 </sup></strong>Jes′se became father to his firstborn E·li′ab, A·bin′a·dab the second, Shim′e·a the third, <span id="chapter2_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14 </sup></strong>Ne·than′el the fourth, Rad′dai the fifth, <span id="chapter2_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15 </sup></strong>O′zem the sixth, and David the seventh. <span id="chapter2_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16 </sup></strong>Their sisters were Ze·ru′iah and Ab′i·gail. The sons of Ze·ru′iah were A·bish′ai, Jo′ab, and As′a·hel, three. <span id="chapter2_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17 </sup></strong>Ab′i·gail gave birth to A·ma′sa, and the father of A·ma′sa was Je′ther the Ish′ma·el·ite.</p>
<p id="p45" class="p45 sb"><span id="chapter2_verse18"></span><strong><sup>18 </sup></strong>Ca′leb<span id="footnotesource13"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote13">*</a> the son of Hez′ron became father to sons by his wife A·zu′bah and by Jer′i·oth; <span id="page569"></span>and these were her sons: Je′sher, Sho′bab, and Ar′don. <span id="chapter2_verse19"></span><strong><sup>19 </sup></strong>When A·zu′bah died, Ca′leb married Eph′rath, and she bore Hur to him. <span id="chapter2_verse20"></span><strong><sup>20 </sup></strong>Hur became father to U′ri. U′ri became father to Bez′al·el.</p>
<p id="p46" class="p46 sb"><span id="chapter2_verse21"></span><strong><sup>21 </sup></strong>Afterward Hez′ron had relations with the daughter of Ma′chir the father of Gil′e·ad. He married her when he was 60 years old, and she bore Se′gub to him. <span id="chapter2_verse22"></span><strong><sup>22 </sup></strong>Se′gub became father to Ja′ir, who had 23 cities in the land of Gil′e·ad. <span id="chapter2_verse23"></span><strong><sup>23 </sup></strong>Later Gesh′ur and Syria took Hav′voth-ja′ir from them, along with Ke′nath and its dependent<span id="footnotesource14"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote14">*</a> towns, 60 cities. All of these were the descendants of Ma′chir the father of Gil′e·ad.</p>
<p id="p47" class="p47 sb"><span id="chapter2_verse24"></span><strong><sup>24 </sup></strong>After the death of Hez′ron in Ca′leb-eph′ra·thah, A·bi′jah the wife of Hez′ron bore him Ash′hur the father of Te·ko′a.</p>
<p id="p48" class="p48 sb"><span id="chapter2_verse25"></span><strong><sup>25 </sup></strong>The sons of Je·rah′me·el the firstborn of Hez′ron were Ram the firstborn, Bu′nah, O′ren, O′zem, and A·hi′jah. <span id="chapter2_verse26"></span><strong><sup>26 </sup></strong>Je·rah′me·el had another wife, whose name was At′a·rah. She was the mother of O′nam. <span id="chapter2_verse27"></span><strong><sup>27 </sup></strong>The sons of Ram the firstborn of Je·rah′me·el were Ma′az, Ja′min, and E′ker. <span id="chapter2_verse28"></span><strong><sup>28 </sup></strong>The sons of O′nam were Sham′mai and Ja′da. The sons of Sham′mai were Na′dab and A·bi′shur. <span id="chapter2_verse29"></span><strong><sup>29 </sup></strong>The name of A·bi′shur’s wife was Ab′i·ha·il, who bore him Ah′ban and Mo′lid. <span id="chapter2_verse30"></span><strong><sup>30 </sup></strong>The sons of Na′dab were Se′led and Ap′pa·im. But Se′led died without sons. <span id="chapter2_verse31"></span><strong><sup>31 </sup></strong>The son<span id="footnotesource15"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote15">*</a> of Ap′pa·im was Ish′i. And the son<span id="footnotesource16"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote16">*</a> of Ish′i was She′shan, and the son<span id="footnotesource17"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote17">*</a> of She′shan, Ah′lai. <span id="chapter2_verse32"></span><strong><sup>32 </sup></strong>The sons of Ja′da the brother of Sham′mai were Je′ther and Jon′a·than. But Je′ther died without sons. <span id="chapter2_verse33"></span><strong><sup>33 </sup></strong>The sons of Jon′a·than were Pe′leth and Za′za. These were the descendants of Je·rah′me·el.</p>
<p id="p49" class="p49 sb"><span id="chapter2_verse34"></span><strong><sup>34 </sup></strong>She′shan had no sons, only daughters. Now She′shan had an Egyptian servant whose name was Jar′ha. <span id="chapter2_verse35"></span><strong><sup>35 </sup></strong>She′shan gave his daughter to be the wife of his servant Jar′ha, and she bore him At′tai. <span id="chapter2_verse36"></span><strong><sup>36 </sup></strong>At′tai became father to Nathan. Nathan became father to Za′bad. <span id="chapter2_verse37"></span><strong><sup>37 </sup></strong>Za′bad became father to Eph′lal. Eph′lal became father to O′bed. <span id="chapter2_verse38"></span><strong><sup>38 </sup></strong>O′bed became father to Je′hu. Je′hu became father to Az·a·ri′ah. <span id="chapter2_verse39"></span><strong><sup>39 </sup></strong>Az·a·ri′ah became father to He′lez. He′lez became father to El·e·a′sah. <span id="chapter2_verse40"></span><strong><sup>40 </sup></strong>El·e·a′sah became father to Sis′mai. Sis′mai became father to Shal′lum. <span id="chapter2_verse41"></span><strong><sup>41 </sup></strong>Shal′lum became father to Jek·a·mi′ah. Jek·a·mi′ah became father to E·lish′a·ma.</p>
<p id="p50" class="p50 sb"><span id="chapter2_verse42"></span><strong><sup>42 </sup></strong>The sons of Ca′leb<span id="footnotesource18"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote18">*</a> the brother of Je·rah′me·el were Me′sha his firstborn, who was the father of Ziph, and the sons of Ma·re′shah the father of Heb′ron. <span id="chapter2_verse43"></span><strong><sup>43 </sup></strong>The sons of Heb′ron were Kor′ah, Tap′pu·ah, Re′kem, and She′ma. <span id="chapter2_verse44"></span><strong><sup>44 </sup></strong>She′ma became father to Ra′ham the father of Jor′ke·am. Re′kem became father to Sham′mai. <span id="chapter2_verse45"></span><strong><sup>45 </sup></strong>The son of Sham′mai was Ma′on. Ma′on was the father of Beth-zur. <span id="chapter2_verse46"></span><strong><sup>46 </sup></strong>Ca′leb’s concubine E′phah gave birth to Ha′ran, Mo′za, and Ga′zez. Ha′ran became father to Ga′zez. <span id="chapter2_verse47"></span><strong><sup>47 </sup></strong>The sons of Jah′dai were Re′gem, Jo′tham, Ge′shan, Pel′et, E′phah, and Sha′aph. <span id="chapter2_verse48"></span><strong><sup>48 </sup></strong>Ca′leb’s concubine Ma′a·cah gave birth to She′ber and Tir′ha·nah. <span id="chapter2_verse49"></span><strong><sup>49 </sup></strong>In time she bore Sha′aph the father of Mad·man′nah, She′va the father of Mach·be′nah, <span id="page570"></span>and Gib′e·a. Ca′leb’s daughter was Ach′sah. <span id="chapter2_verse50"></span><strong><sup>50 </sup></strong>These were the descendants of Ca′leb.</p>
<p id="p51" class="p51 sb">The sons of Hur the firstborn of Eph′ra·thah were Sho′bal the father of Kir′i·ath-je′a·rim, <span id="chapter2_verse51"></span><strong><sup>51 </sup></strong>Sal′ma the father of Beth′le·hem, and Ha′reph the father of Beth-ga′der. <span id="chapter2_verse52"></span><strong><sup>52 </sup></strong>Sho′bal the father of Kir′i·ath-je′a·rim had sons: Ha·ro′eh and half of the Me·nu′hoth. <span id="chapter2_verse53"></span><strong><sup>53 </sup></strong>The families of Kir′i·ath-je′a·rim were the Ith′rites, the Pu′thites, the Shu′math·ites, and the Mish′ra·ites. It was from these that the Zo′rath·ites and the Esh′ta·ol·ites came. <span id="chapter2_verse54"></span><strong><sup>54 </sup></strong>The sons of Sal′ma were Beth′le·hem, the Ne·toph′a·thites, At′roth-beth-jo′ab, half of the Man·a·ha′thites, and the Zor′ites. <span id="chapter2_verse55"></span><strong><sup>55 </sup></strong>The families of the scribes dwelling at Ja′bez were the Ti′rath·ites, the Shim′e·ath·ites, and the Su′cath·ites. These were the Ken′ites who came from Ham′math the father of the house of Re′chab.</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote8"><p><a href="050_1CH-.1-split2.xhtml#footnotesource8">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Chron. 2:7</span></a> Lit., “sons.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote9"><p><a href="050_1CH-.1-split2.xhtml#footnotesource9">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Chron. 2:7</span></a> Meaning “Bringer of Disaster; Bringer of Ostracism.” In Jos 7:1, also called Achan.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote10"><p><a href="050_1CH-.1-split2.xhtml#footnotesource10">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Chron. 2:7</span></a> Or “trouble; ostracism.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote11"><p><a href="050_1CH-.1-split2.xhtml#footnotesource11">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Chron. 2:8</span></a> Lit., “sons.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote12"><p><a href="050_1CH-.1-split2.xhtml#footnotesource12">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Chron. 2:9</span></a> Also called Caleb in vss. 18, 19, 42.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote13"><p><a href="050_1CH-.1-split2.xhtml#footnotesource13">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Chron. 2:18</span></a> Also called Chelubai in vs. 9.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote14"><p><a href="050_1CH-.1-split2.xhtml#footnotesource14">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Chron. 2:23</span></a> Or “surrounding.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote15"><p><a href="050_1CH-.1-split2.xhtml#footnotesource15">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Chron. 2:31</span></a> Lit., “sons.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote16"><p><a href="050_1CH-.1-split2.xhtml#footnotesource16">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Chron. 2:31</span></a> Lit., “sons.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote17"><p><a href="050_1CH-.1-split2.xhtml#footnotesource17">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Chron. 2:31</span></a> Lit., “sons.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote18"><p><a href="050_1CH-.1-split2.xhtml#footnotesource18">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Chron. 2:42</span></a> Also called Chelubai in vs. 9.</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
