<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>1 Chronicles 9</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/docclass1.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
<p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">1 Chronicles</a>  <a href="biblechapternav13.xhtml">9</a> : <a href="bibleversenav13_9.xhtml">1 - 44</a></p>
<p id="p96" class="p96 sb"><span id="pos37654"></span><span id="chapter9"></span><span id="chapter9_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>9 </strong></span>All the Israelites were enrolled genealogically, and they are written in the Book of the Kings of Israel. And Judah was taken into exile to Babylon for their unfaithfulness. <span id="chapter9_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2 </sup></strong>The first inhabitants to return to their possession in their cities were some Israelites, the priests, the Levites, and the temple servants.<span id="footnotesource59"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote59">*</a> <span id="chapter9_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3 </sup></strong>And some of the descendants of Judah, of Benjamin, of E′phra·im, and of Ma·nas′seh settled in Jerusalem: <span id="chapter9_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4 </sup></strong>U′thai son of Am·mi′hud son of Om′ri son of Im′ri son of Ba′ni, of the descendants of Pe′rez son of Judah. <span id="chapter9_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5 </sup></strong>And of the Shi′lo·nites, A·sai′ah the firstborn and his sons. <span id="chapter9_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6 </sup></strong>And of the sons of Ze′rah, Je·u′el and 690 of their brothers.</p>
<p id="p97" class="p97 sb"><span id="page579"></span><span id="chapter9_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7 </sup></strong>And of the descendants of Benjamin, Sal′lu son of Me·shul′lam son of Hod·a·vi′ah son of Has·se·nu′ah, <span id="chapter9_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8 </sup></strong>Ib·ne′iah son of Je·ro′ham, E′lah son of Uz′zi son of Mich′ri, and Me·shul′lam son of Sheph·a·ti′ah son of Reu′el son of Ib·ni′jah. <span id="chapter9_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9 </sup></strong>And their brothers by line of descent were 956. All these men were heads of their paternal houses.<span id="footnotesource60"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote60">*</a></p>
<p id="p98" class="p98 sb"><span id="chapter9_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10 </sup></strong>And of the priests, there were Je·da′iah, Je·hoi′a·rib, Ja′chin, <span id="chapter9_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11 </sup></strong>Az·a·ri′ah son of Hil·ki′ah son of Me·shul′lam son of Za′dok son of Me·ra′ioth son of A·hi′tub, a leader of the house<span id="footnotesource61"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote61">*</a> of the true God, <span id="chapter9_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12 </sup></strong>A·dai′ah son of Je·ro′ham son of Pash′hur son of Mal·chi′jah, Ma′a·sai son of Ad′i·el son of Jah′ze·rah son of Me·shul′lam son of Me·shil′le·mith son of Im′mer, <span id="chapter9_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13 </sup></strong>and their brothers, heads of the paternal houses, 1,760 mighty, capable men available for the service of the house of the true God.</p>
<p id="p99" class="p99 sb"><span id="chapter9_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14 </sup></strong>And of the Levites, there were She·mai′ah son of Has′shub son of Az·ri′kam son of Hash·a·bi′ah from the descendants of Me·rar′i; <span id="chapter9_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15 </sup></strong>and Bak·bak′kar, He′resh, Ga′lal, Mat·ta·ni′ah son of Mi′ca son of Zich′ri son of A′saph, <span id="chapter9_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16 </sup></strong>O·ba·di′ah son of She·mai′ah son of Ga′lal son of Je·du′thun, and Ber·e·chi′ah son of A′sa son of El·ka′nah, who was dwelling in the settlements of the Ne·toph′a·thites.</p>
<p id="p100" class="p100 sb"><span id="chapter9_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17 </sup></strong>The gatekeepers were Shal′lum, Ak′kub, Tal′mon, A·hi′man, and their brother Shal′lum the head, <span id="chapter9_verse18"></span><strong><sup>18 </sup></strong>and until then he was at the king’s gate to the east. These were the gatekeepers of the camps of the Levites. <span id="chapter9_verse19"></span><strong><sup>19 </sup></strong>And Shal′lum son of Ko′re son of E·bi′a·saph son of Kor′ah, and his brothers of his paternal house, the Kor′ah·ites, were over the duties of the service, the doorkeepers of the tent, and their fathers had been over the camp of Jehovah as the keepers of the entryway. <span id="chapter9_verse20"></span><strong><sup>20 </sup></strong>It was Phin′e·has the son of El·e·a′zar who had been their leader in the past; Jehovah was with him. <span id="chapter9_verse21"></span><strong><sup>21 </sup></strong>Zech·a·ri′ah the son of Me·shel·e·mi′ah was the gatekeeper of the entrance of the tent of meeting.</p>
<p id="p101" class="p101 sb"><span id="chapter9_verse22"></span><strong><sup>22 </sup></strong>All those selected as gatekeepers at the thresholds numbered 212. They were in their settlements by their genealogical enrollment. David and Samuel the seer appointed these to their office of trust. <span id="chapter9_verse23"></span><strong><sup>23 </sup></strong>They and their sons were over the guard service for the gates of the house of Jehovah, the house of the tent. <span id="chapter9_verse24"></span><strong><sup>24 </sup></strong>The gatekeepers were on the four sides—east, west, north, and south. <span id="chapter9_verse25"></span><strong><sup>25 </sup></strong>From time to time, their brothers were to come in from their settlements for seven days to serve along with them. <span id="chapter9_verse26"></span><strong><sup>26 </sup></strong>There were four chief<span id="footnotesource62"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote62">*</a> gatekeepers in the office of trust. They were Levites, and they were in charge of the chambers<span id="footnotesource63"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote63">*</a> and of the treasuries of the house of the true God. <span id="chapter9_verse27"></span><strong><sup>27 </sup></strong>They would spend the night in their stations all around the house of the true God, for they cared for the guard service and were in charge of the key and would open up the house from morning to morning.</p>
<p id="p102" class="p102 sb"><span id="chapter9_verse28"></span><strong><sup>28 </sup></strong>Some of them were in charge of the utensils of the service; they would count them when they brought them in and count them when they took them out. <span id="chapter9_verse29"></span><strong><sup>29 </sup></strong>Some of them were appointed over the utensils, over all the holy utensils, and over the fine flour, the wine, the oil, <span id="page580"></span>the frankincense, and the balsam oil. <span id="chapter9_verse30"></span><strong><sup>30 </sup></strong>Some of the sons of the priests mixed the ointment of balsam oil. <span id="chapter9_verse31"></span><strong><sup>31 </sup></strong>And Mat·ti·thi′ah of the Levites, who was the firstborn of Shal′lum the Kor′ah·ite, was in the office of trust over the things baked in pans. <span id="chapter9_verse32"></span><strong><sup>32 </sup></strong>Some of their brothers of the Ko′hath·ites were in charge of the layer bread,<span id="footnotesource64"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote64">*</a> to prepare it every sabbath.</p>
<p id="p103" class="p103 sb"><span id="chapter9_verse33"></span><strong><sup>33 </sup></strong>These were the singers, the heads of the paternal houses of the Levites in the chambers,<span id="footnotesource65"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote65">*</a> those set free from other duties; for by day and by night it was their responsibility to be on duty. <span id="chapter9_verse34"></span><strong><sup>34 </sup></strong>These were the heads of the paternal houses of the Levites by their line of descent, headmen. These lived in Jerusalem.</p>
<p id="p104" class="p104 sb"><span id="pos42229"></span><span id="chapter9_verse35"></span><strong><sup>35 </sup></strong>The father of Gib′e·on, Je·i′el, lived in Gib′e·on. His wife’s name was Ma′a·cah. <span id="chapter9_verse36"></span><strong><sup>36 </sup></strong>And his firstborn son was Ab′don, followed by Zur, Kish, Ba′al, Ner, Na′dab, <span id="chapter9_verse37"></span><strong><sup>37 </sup></strong>Ge′dor, A·hi′o, Zech·a·ri′ah, and Mik′loth. <span id="chapter9_verse38"></span><strong><sup>38 </sup></strong>Mik′loth became father to Shim′e·am. And they all lived near their brothers in Jerusalem, along with their other brothers. <span id="chapter9_verse39"></span><strong><sup>39 </sup></strong>Ner became father to Kish; Kish became father to Saul; Saul became father to Jon′a·than, Mal′chi-shu′a, A·bin′a·dab, and Esh·ba′al. <span id="chapter9_verse40"></span><strong><sup>40 </sup></strong>And Jon′a·than’s son was Mer′ib-ba′al. Mer′ib-ba′al became father to Mi′cah. <span id="chapter9_verse41"></span><strong><sup>41 </sup></strong>And the sons of Mi′cah were Pi′thon, Mel′ech, Tahr′e·a, and A′haz. <span id="chapter9_verse42"></span><strong><sup>42 </sup></strong>A′haz became father to Ja′rah; Ja′rah became father to Al′e·meth, Az′ma·veth, and Zim′ri. Zim′ri became father to Mo′za. <span id="chapter9_verse43"></span><strong><sup>43 </sup></strong>Mo′za became father to Bin′e·a and Re·pha′iah his son, El·e·a′sah his son, A′zel his son. <span id="chapter9_verse44"></span><strong><sup>44 </sup></strong>A′zel had six sons, and their names were Az·ri′kam, Bo′che·ru, Ish′ma·el, She·a·ri′ah, O·ba·di′ah, and Ha′nan. These were the sons of A′zel.</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote59"><p><a href="050_1CH-.1-split9.xhtml#footnotesource59">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Chron. 9:2</span></a> Or “the Nethinim.” Lit., “the given ones.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote60"><p><a href="050_1CH-.1-split9.xhtml#footnotesource60">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Chron. 9:9</span></a> Lit., “heads of fathers for the house of their fathers.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote61"><p><a href="050_1CH-.1-split9.xhtml#footnotesource61">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Chron. 9:11</span></a> Or “temple.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote62"><p><a href="050_1CH-.1-split9.xhtml#footnotesource62">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Chron. 9:26</span></a> Lit., “mighty.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote63"><p><a href="050_1CH-.1-split9.xhtml#footnotesource63">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Chron. 9:26</span></a> Or “dining rooms.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote64"><p><a href="050_1CH-.1-split9.xhtml#footnotesource64">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Chron. 9:32</span></a> That is, the showbread.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote65"><p><a href="050_1CH-.1-split9.xhtml#footnotesource65">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Chron. 9:33</span></a> Or “dining rooms.”</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
