<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>1 Chronicles 18</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/docclass1.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
<p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">1 Chronicles</a>  <a href="biblechapternav13.xhtml">18</a> : <a href="bibleversenav13_18.xhtml">1 - 17</a></p>
<p id="p182" class="p182 sb"><span id="pos74319"></span><span id="chapter18"></span><span id="chapter18_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>18 </strong></span>Some time later, David defeated the Phi·lis′tines and subdued them and took Gath and its dependent<span id="footnotesource121"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote121">*</a> towns out of the hands of the Phi·lis′tines. <span id="chapter18_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2 </sup></strong>Then he defeated Mo′ab, and the Mo′ab·ites became David’s servants and brought tribute.</p>
<p id="p183" class="p183 sb"><span id="chapter18_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3 </sup></strong>David defeated King Had·ad·e′zer of Zo′bah near Ha′math as he was on his way to establish his authority at the Eu·phra′tes <span id="page591"></span>River. <span id="chapter18_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4 </sup></strong>David captured 1,000 chariots, 7,000 horsemen, and 20,000 foot soldiers from him. Then David hamstrung all but 100 of the chariot horses. <span id="chapter18_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5 </sup></strong>When the Syrians of Damascus came to help King Had·ad·e′zer of Zo′bah, David struck down 22,000 of the Syrians. <span id="chapter18_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6 </sup></strong>David then established garrisons in Syria of Damascus, and the Syrians became David’s servants and brought tribute. Jehovah gave David victory<span id="footnotesource122"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote122">*</a> wherever he went. <span id="chapter18_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7 </sup></strong>Moreover, David took the circular shields of gold from the servants of Had·ad·e′zer and brought them to Jerusalem. <span id="chapter18_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8 </sup></strong>From Tib′hath and Cun, cities of Had·ad·e′zer, David took a great quantity of copper. With it Sol′o·mon made the copper Sea, the pillars, and the copper utensils.</p>
<p id="p184" class="p184 sb"><span id="chapter18_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9 </sup></strong>When King To′u of Ha′math heard that David had defeated the entire army of King Had·ad·e′zer of Zo′bah, <span id="chapter18_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10 </sup></strong>he immediately sent his son Ha·do′ram to King David to ask about his welfare and to congratulate him because he had fought and defeated Had·ad·e′zer (for Had·ad·e′zer had often fought against To′u), and he brought all sorts of articles of gold, silver, and copper. <span id="chapter18_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11 </sup></strong>King David sanctified these to Jehovah, along with the silver and the gold that he had carried off from all the nations: from E′dom and Mo′ab, from the Am′mon·ites, the Phi·lis′tines, and the A·mal′ek·ites.</p>
<p id="p185" class="p185 sb"><span id="chapter18_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12 </sup></strong>A·bish′ai the son of Ze·ru′iah struck down 18,000 E′dom·ites in the Valley of Salt. <span id="chapter18_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13 </sup></strong>He established garrisons in E′dom, and all the E′dom·ites became David’s servants. Jehovah gave David victory<span id="footnotesource123"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote123">*</a> wherever he went. <span id="pos76253"></span><span id="chapter18_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14 </sup></strong>David kept reigning over all Israel, and he was administering justice and righteousness for all his people. <span id="chapter18_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15 </sup></strong>Jo′ab the son of Ze·ru′iah was over the army, Je·hosh′a·phat the son of A·hi′lud was recorder, <span id="chapter18_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16 </sup></strong>Za′dok the son of A·hi′tub and A·him′e·lech the son of A·bi′a·thar were priests, and Shav′sha was secretary. <span id="chapter18_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17 </sup></strong>Be·nai′ah the son of Je·hoi′a·da was over the Cher′e·thites and the Pel′e·thites. And David’s sons were first in position next to the king.</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote121"><p><a href="050_1CH-.1-split18.xhtml#footnotesource121">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Chron. 18:1</span></a> Or “surrounding.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote122"><p><a href="050_1CH-.1-split18.xhtml#footnotesource122">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Chron. 18:6</span></a> Or “salvation.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote123"><p><a href="050_1CH-.1-split18.xhtml#footnotesource123">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Chron. 18:13</span></a> Or “salvation.”</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
