<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>1 Chronicles 27</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/docclass1.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
<p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">1 Chronicles</a>  <a href="biblechapternav13.xhtml">27</a> : <a href="bibleversenav13_27.xhtml">1 - 34</a></p>
<p id="p232" class="p232 sb"><span id="pos104880"></span><span id="chapter27"></span><span id="chapter27_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>27 </strong></span>This is the number of Israelites, the heads of the paternal houses, the chiefs of the thousands and of the hundreds, and their officers who ministered to the king in every matter of the divisions that would come in and go out month by month during all the months of the year; there were 24,000 in each division.</p>
<p id="p233" class="p233 sb"><span id="chapter27_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2 </sup></strong>Over the first division of the first month was Ja·sho′be·am the son of Zab′di·el, and 24,000 were in his division. <span id="chapter27_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3 </sup></strong>Of the sons of Pe′rez, he was the head of all the chiefs of the groups assigned to serve during the first month. <span id="chapter27_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4 </sup></strong>Over the division of the second month was Do′dai the A·ho′hite with his division, and Mik′loth was the leader, and 24,000 were in his division. <span id="chapter27_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5 </sup></strong>The chief of the third group assigned to serve during the third month was Be·nai′ah the son of Je·hoi′a·da the chief priest, and 24,000 were in his division. <span id="chapter27_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6 </sup></strong>This Be·nai′ah was a mighty warrior of the thirty and in charge of the thirty, and over his division was his son Am·miz′a·bad. <span id="chapter27_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7 </sup></strong>The fourth for the fourth month was As′a·hel, Jo′ab’s brother, and his son Zeb·a·di′ah after him, and 24,000 were in his division. <span id="chapter27_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8 </sup></strong>The fifth chief for the fifth month was Sham′huth the Iz′rah·ite, and 24,000 were in his division. <span id="chapter27_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9 </sup></strong>The sixth for the sixth month was I′ra the son of Ik′kesh the Te·ko′ite, and 24,000 were in his division. <span id="chapter27_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10 </sup></strong>The seventh for the seventh month was He′lez the Pel′o·nite of the E′phra·im·ites, and 24,000 were in his division. <span id="chapter27_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11 </sup></strong>The eighth for the eighth month was Sib′be·cai the Hu′shath·ite of the Ze′rah·ites, and 24,000 were in his division. <span id="chapter27_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12 </sup></strong>The ninth for the ninth month was Abi-e′zer the An′a·thoth·ite of the Ben′ja·min·ites, and 24,000 were in his division. <span id="chapter27_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13 </sup></strong>The tenth for the tenth month was Ma′ha·rai the Ne·toph′a·thite of the Ze′rah·ites, and 24,000 were in his division. <span id="chapter27_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14 </sup></strong>The 11th for the 11th month was Be·nai′ah the Pir′a·thon·ite of the sons of E′phra·im, and 24,000 were in his division. <span id="chapter27_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15 </sup></strong>The 12th for the 12th month was Hel′dai the Ne·toph′a·thite, <span id="page601"></span>of Oth′ni·el, and 24,000 were in his division.</p>
<p id="p234" class="p234 sb"><span id="chapter27_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16 </sup></strong>These were the leaders of the tribes of Israel: Of the Reu′ben·ites, E·li·e′zer the son of Zich′ri was leader; of the Sim′e·on·ites, Sheph·a·ti′ah the son of Ma′a·cah; <span id="chapter27_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17 </sup></strong>of Le′vi, Hash·a·bi′ah the son of Kem·u′el; of Aaron, Za′dok; <span id="chapter27_verse18"></span><strong><sup>18 </sup></strong>of Judah, E·li′hu, one of David’s brothers; of Is′sa·char, Om′ri the son of Mi′cha·el; <span id="chapter27_verse19"></span><strong><sup>19 </sup></strong>of Zeb′u·lun, Ish·ma′iah the son of O·ba·di′ah; of Naph′ta·li, Jer′i·moth the son of Az′ri·el; <span id="chapter27_verse20"></span><strong><sup>20 </sup></strong>of the E′phra·im·ites, Ho·she′a the son of Az·a·zi′ah; of the half tribe of Ma·nas′seh, Joel the son of Pe·dai′ah; <span id="chapter27_verse21"></span><strong><sup>21 </sup></strong>of the half tribe of Ma·nas′seh in Gil′e·ad, Id′do the son of Zech·a·ri′ah; of Benjamin, Ja·a·si′el the son of Ab′ner; <span id="chapter27_verse22"></span><strong><sup>22 </sup></strong>of Dan, Az′ar·el the son of Je·ro′ham. These were the princes of the tribes of Israel.</p>
<p id="p235" class="p235 sb"><span id="chapter27_verse23"></span><strong><sup>23 </sup></strong>David did not count those 20 years of age and under, because Jehovah had promised to make Israel as many as the stars of the heavens. <span id="chapter27_verse24"></span><strong><sup>24 </sup></strong>Jo′ab the son of Ze·ru′iah had started to take the count, but he did not finish; and God’s anger came against Israel<span id="footnotesource147"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote147">*</a> because of this, and the number was not entered into the account of the history of the times of King David.</p>
<p id="p236" class="p236 sb"><span id="chapter27_verse25"></span><strong><sup>25 </sup></strong>Over the treasuries of the king was Az′ma·veth the son of Ad′i·el. Jon′a·than the son of Uz·zi′ah was over the storehouses<span id="footnotesource148"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote148">*</a> in the fields, in the cities, in the villages, and in the towers. <span id="chapter27_verse26"></span><strong><sup>26 </sup></strong>Over the field workers who cultivated the soil was Ez′ri the son of Che′lub. <span id="chapter27_verse27"></span><strong><sup>27 </sup></strong>Shim′e·i the Ra′math·ite was over the vineyards; over the produce of the vineyards for the wine supplies was Zab′di the Shiph′mite. <span id="chapter27_verse28"></span><strong><sup>28 </sup></strong>Over the olive groves and the sycamore trees in the She·phe′lah was Ba′al-ha′nan the Ge·de′rite; over the oil supplies was Jo′ash. <span id="chapter27_verse29"></span><strong><sup>29 </sup></strong>Over the herds that grazed in Shar′on was Shit′rai the Shar′on·ite, and Sha′phat the son of Ad′lai was over the herds in the valley plains.<span id="footnotesource149"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote149">*</a> <span id="chapter27_verse30"></span><strong><sup>30 </sup></strong>Over the camels was O′bil the Ish′ma·el·ite; over the donkeys<span id="footnotesource150"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote150">*</a> was Jeh·de′iah the Me·ron′o·thite. <span id="chapter27_verse31"></span><strong><sup>31 </sup></strong>Over the flocks was Ja′ziz the Hag′rite. All of these were the chiefs of King David’s property.</p>
<p id="p237" class="p237 sb"><span id="chapter27_verse32"></span><strong><sup>32 </sup></strong>Jon′a·than, David’s nephew, was an adviser, a man of understanding and a secretary, and Je·hi′el the son of Hach′mo·ni looked after the king’s sons. <span id="chapter27_verse33"></span><strong><sup>33 </sup></strong>A·hith′o·phel was an adviser to the king, and Hu′shai the Ar′chite was the king’s friend.<span id="footnotesource151"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote151">*</a> <span id="chapter27_verse34"></span><strong><sup>34 </sup></strong>After A·hith′o·phel there were Je·hoi′a·da the son of Be·nai′ah and A·bi′a·thar; and Jo′ab was chief of the king’s army.</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote147"><p><a href="050_1CH-.1-split27.xhtml#footnotesource147">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Chron. 27:24</span></a> Lit., “and anger was on Israel.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote148"><p><a href="050_1CH-.1-split27.xhtml#footnotesource148">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Chron. 27:25</span></a> Or “treasuries.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote149"><p><a href="050_1CH-.1-split27.xhtml#footnotesource149">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Chron. 27:29</span></a> Or “low plains.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote150"><p><a href="050_1CH-.1-split27.xhtml#footnotesource150">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Chron. 27:30</span></a> Lit., “female donkeys.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote151"><p><a href="050_1CH-.1-split27.xhtml#footnotesource151">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Chron. 27:33</span></a> Or “confidant.”</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
