<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>1 Chronicles 11</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/docclass1.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
<p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">1 Chronicles</a>  <a href="biblechapternav13.xhtml">11</a> : <a href="bibleversenav13_11.xhtml">1 - 47</a></p>
<p id="p109" class="p109 sb"><span id="pos45317"></span><span id="chapter11"></span><span id="chapter11_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>11 </strong></span>In time all the Israelites gathered to David at Heb′ron and said: “Look! We are your own bone and flesh.<span id="footnotesource69"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote69">*</a> <span id="chapter11_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2 </sup></strong>In times past while Saul was king, you were the one who was leading Israel on its campaigns.<span id="footnotesource70"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote70">*</a> And Jehovah your God said to you: ‘You will shepherd my people Israel, and you will become leader over my people Israel.’” <span id="chapter11_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3 </sup></strong>So all the elders of Israel came to the king at Heb′ron, and David made a covenant with them in Heb′ron before Jehovah. Then they anointed David as king over Israel, according to Jehovah’s word through Samuel.</p>
<p id="p110" class="p110 sb"><span id="pos45868"></span><span id="chapter11_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4 </sup></strong>Later David and all Israel set out for Jerusalem, that is, Je′bus, where the Jeb′u·sites were inhabiting the land. <span id="chapter11_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5 </sup></strong>The inhabitants of Je′bus taunted David: “You will never come in here!” However, David captured the stronghold of Zion, which is now the City of David. <span id="chapter11_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6 </sup></strong>So David said: “Whoever is the first to strike the Jeb′u·sites will become chief<span id="footnotesource71"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote71">*</a> and prince.” And Jo′ab the son of Ze·ru′iah went up first, and he became the chief. <span id="chapter11_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7 </sup></strong>Then David took up residence in the stronghold. That is why they called it the City of David. <span id="chapter11_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8 </sup></strong>He began to build up the city all around, from the Mound<span id="footnotesource72"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote72">*</a> to the areas around it, and Jo′ab restored the rest of the city. <span id="chapter11_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9 </sup></strong>Thus David became greater and greater, and Jehovah of armies was with him.</p>
<p id="p111" class="p111 sb"><span id="pos46622"></span><span id="chapter11_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10 </sup></strong>Now these are the heads of David’s mighty warriors, who gave him strong support in his kingship, together with all Israel, to make him king according to Jehovah’s word concerning Israel. <span id="chapter11_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11 </sup></strong>This is the list of David’s mighty warriors: Ja·sho′be·am the son of a Hach′mon·ite, the head of the three. He brandished his spear over 300 slain at one time. <span id="chapter11_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12 </sup></strong>Next to him was El·e·a′zar the son of Do′do the A·ho′hite. He was among the three mighty warriors. <span id="chapter11_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13 </sup></strong>He was with David at Pas-dam′mim, where the Phi·lis′tines had gathered together for war. Now there was a plot of land full of barley, and the people had fled because of the Phi·lis′tines. <span id="chapter11_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14 </sup></strong>But he took his stand in the middle of the field and defended it and kept striking down the Phi·lis′tines, so that Jehovah brought about a great victory.<span id="footnotesource73"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote73">*</a></p>
<p id="p112" class="p112 sb"><span id="chapter11_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15 </sup></strong>Three of the 30 headmen went down to the rock, to David at the cave of A·dul′lam, while a Phi·lis′tine army was camped in the Valley<span id="footnotesource74"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote74">*</a> of Reph′a·im. <span id="chapter11_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16 </sup></strong>David was then in the stronghold, and a garrison of the Phi·lis′tines was in Beth′le·hem. <span id="chapter11_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17 </sup></strong>Then David expressed <span id="page582"></span>his longing: “If only I could have a drink of the water from the cistern by the gate of Beth′le·hem!” <span id="chapter11_verse18"></span><strong><sup>18 </sup></strong>At that the three forced their way into the camp of the Phi·lis′tines and drew water from the cistern by the gate of Beth′le·hem and brought it to David; but David refused to drink it and poured it out to Jehovah. <span id="chapter11_verse19"></span><strong><sup>19 </sup></strong>He said: “It is unthinkable on my part from the standpoint of my God to do this! Should I drink the blood of these men who risked their lives?<span id="footnotesource75"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote75">*</a> For it was at the risk of their lives<span id="footnotesource76"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote76">*</a> that they brought it.” So he refused to drink it. These are the things that his three mighty warriors did.</p>
<p id="p113" class="p113 sb"><span id="chapter11_verse20"></span><strong><sup>20 </sup></strong>A·bish′ai the brother of Jo′ab became head of another three; he brandished his spear over 300 slain, and he had a reputation like the three. <span id="chapter11_verse21"></span><strong><sup>21 </sup></strong>Of the other three, he was more distinguished than two of them, and he was their chief; yet he did not attain to the rank of the first three.</p>
<p id="p114" class="p114 sb"><span id="chapter11_verse22"></span><strong><sup>22 </sup></strong>Be·nai′ah the son of Je·hoi′a·da was a courageous man<span id="footnotesource77"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote77">*</a> who performed many exploits in Kab′ze·el. He struck down the two sons of Ar′i·el of Mo′ab, and he descended into a waterpit on a snowy day and killed a lion. <span id="chapter11_verse23"></span><strong><sup>23 </sup></strong>He also struck down an Egyptian man of extraordinary size—five cubits<span id="footnotesource78"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote78">*</a> tall. Though the Egyptian had a spear in his hand like the beam of loom workers, he went against him with a rod and snatched the spear away from the Egyptian’s hand and killed him with his own spear. <span id="chapter11_verse24"></span><strong><sup>24 </sup></strong>These things Be·nai′ah the son of Je·hoi′a·da did, and he had a reputation like that of the three mighty warriors. <span id="chapter11_verse25"></span><strong><sup>25 </sup></strong>Although he was distinguished even more than the thirty, he did not attain to the rank of the three. However, David appointed him over his own bodyguard.</p>
<p id="p115" class="p115 sb"><span id="chapter11_verse26"></span><strong><sup>26 </sup></strong>The mighty warriors of the military forces were As′a·hel the brother of Jo′ab, El·ha′nan the son of Do′do of Beth′le·hem, <span id="chapter11_verse27"></span><strong><sup>27 </sup></strong>Sham′moth the Ha′ro·rite, He′lez the Pel′o·nite, <span id="chapter11_verse28"></span><strong><sup>28 </sup></strong>I′ra the son of Ik′kesh the Te·ko′ite, Abi-e′zer the An′a·thoth·ite, <span id="chapter11_verse29"></span><strong><sup>29 </sup></strong>Sib′be·cai the Hu′shath·ite, I′lai the A·ho′hite, <span id="chapter11_verse30"></span><strong><sup>30 </sup></strong>Ma′ha·rai the Ne·toph′a·thite, He′led the son of Ba′a·nah the Ne·toph′a·thite, <span id="chapter11_verse31"></span><strong><sup>31 </sup></strong>I′thai the son of Ri′bai of Gib′e·ah of the Ben′ja·min·ites, Be·nai′ah the Pir′a·thon·ite, <span id="chapter11_verse32"></span><strong><sup>32 </sup></strong>Hu′rai of the wadis<span id="footnotesource79"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote79">*</a> of Ga′ash, A·bi′el the Ar′bath·ite, <span id="chapter11_verse33"></span><strong><sup>33 </sup></strong>Az′ma·veth the Ba·ha′rum·ite, E·li′ah·ba the Sha·al′bo·nite, <span id="chapter11_verse34"></span><strong><sup>34 </sup></strong>the sons of Ha′shem the Gi′zo·nite, Jon′a·than the son of Sha′gee the Har′a·rite, <span id="chapter11_verse35"></span><strong><sup>35 </sup></strong>A·hi′am the son of Sa′car the Har′a·rite, E·li′phal the son of Ur, <span id="chapter11_verse36"></span><strong><sup>36 </sup></strong>He′pher the Me·che′rath·ite, A·hi′jah the Pel′o·nite, <span id="chapter11_verse37"></span><strong><sup>37 </sup></strong>Hez′ro the Car′mel·ite, Na′a·rai the son of Ez′bai, <span id="chapter11_verse38"></span><strong><sup>38 </sup></strong>Joel the brother of Nathan, Mib′har the son of Hag′ri, <span id="chapter11_verse39"></span><strong><sup>39 </sup></strong>Ze′lek the Am′mon·ite, Na′ha·rai the Be·roth′ite, the armor-bearer of Jo′ab the son of Ze·ru′iah; <span id="chapter11_verse40"></span><strong><sup>40 </sup></strong>I′ra the Ith′rite, Ga′reb the Ith′rite, <span id="chapter11_verse41"></span><strong><sup>41 </sup></strong>U·ri′ah the Hit′tite, Za′bad the son of Ah′lai, <span id="chapter11_verse42"></span><strong><sup>42 </sup></strong>Ad′i·na the son of Shi′za the Reu′ben·ite, a head of the Reu′ben·ites, and 30 with him; <span id="chapter11_verse43"></span><strong><sup>43 </sup></strong>Ha′nan the son of Ma′a·cah, Josh′a·phat the Mith′nite, <span id="chapter11_verse44"></span><strong><sup>44 </sup></strong>Uz·zi′a the Ash′te·rath·ite, Sha′ma and Je·i′el, the sons of Ho′tham the A·ro′er·ite; <span id="chapter11_verse45"></span><strong><sup>45 </sup></strong>Je·di′a·el the son of Shim′ri, and Jo′ha his brother the Ti′zite; <span id="chapter11_verse46"></span><strong><sup>46 </sup></strong>E′li·el the Ma′ha·vite, Jer′i·bai and Josh·a·vi′ah the sons of El′na·am, and Ith′mah the Mo′ab·ite; <span id="page583"></span><span id="chapter11_verse47"></span><strong><sup>47 </sup></strong>E′li·el, O′bed, and Ja·a·si′el the Me·zo′ba·ite.</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote69"><p><a href="050_1CH-.1-split11.xhtml#footnotesource69">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Chron. 11:1</span></a> Or “your blood relatives.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote70"><p><a href="050_1CH-.1-split11.xhtml#footnotesource70">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Chron. 11:2</span></a> Lit., “the one bringing out and the one bringing in Israel.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote71"><p><a href="050_1CH-.1-split11.xhtml#footnotesource71">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Chron. 11:6</span></a> Lit., “head.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote72"><p><a href="050_1CH-.1-split11.xhtml#footnotesource72">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Chron. 11:8</span></a> Or “Millo.” A Hebrew term meaning “fill.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote73"><p><a href="050_1CH-.1-split11.xhtml#footnotesource73">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Chron. 11:14</span></a> Or “salvation.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote74"><p><a href="050_1CH-.1-split11.xhtml#footnotesource74">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Chron. 11:15</span></a> Or “Low Plain.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote75"><p><a href="050_1CH-.1-split11.xhtml#footnotesource75">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Chron. 11:19</span></a> Or “souls.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote76"><p><a href="050_1CH-.1-split11.xhtml#footnotesource76">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Chron. 11:19</span></a> Or “souls.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote77"><p><a href="050_1CH-.1-split11.xhtml#footnotesource77">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Chron. 11:22</span></a> Lit., “the son of a man of valor.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote78"><p><a href="050_1CH-.1-split11.xhtml#footnotesource78">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Chron. 11:23</span></a> His height was about 2.23 m (7.3 ft). See <a href="192_APPB.14A.xhtml">App. B14</a>.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote79"><p><a href="050_1CH-.1-split11.xhtml#footnotesource79">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Chron. 11:32</span></a> See Glossary.</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
