<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>1 Chronicles 12</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/docclass1.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
<p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">1 Chronicles</a>  <a href="biblechapternav13.xhtml">12</a> : <a href="bibleversenav13_12.xhtml">1 - 40</a></p>
<p id="p116" class="p116 sb"><span id="pos51132"></span><span id="chapter12"></span><span id="chapter12_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>12 </strong></span>These were the men who came to David at Zik′lag while he was unable to move about freely because of Saul the son of Kish, and they were among the mighty warriors who supported him in battle. <span id="chapter12_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2 </sup></strong>They were armed with the bow, and they could use both the right hand and the left hand to sling stones or to shoot arrows with the bow. They were of the brothers of Saul, from Benjamin. <span id="chapter12_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3 </sup></strong>The head was A·hi·e′zer, along with Jo′ash, both sons of She·ma′ah the Gib′e·ath·ite; Je′zi·el and Pel′et the sons of Az′ma·veth, Ber′a·cah, Je′hu the An′a·thoth·ite, <span id="chapter12_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4 </sup></strong>Ish·ma′iah the Gib′e·on·ite, a mighty warrior among the thirty and over the thirty; also Jeremiah, Ja·ha·zi′el, Jo·ha′nan, Jo′za·bad the Ge·de′rath·ite, <span id="chapter12_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5 </sup></strong>E·lu′zai, Jer′i·moth, Be·a·li′ah, Shem·a·ri′ah, Sheph·a·ti′ah the Har′i·phite, <span id="chapter12_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6 </sup></strong>El·ka′nah, Is·shi′ah, Az′ar·el, Jo·e′zer, and Ja·sho′be·am, the Kor′ah·ites; <span id="chapter12_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7 </sup></strong>and Jo·e′lah and Zeb·a·di′ah the sons of Je·ro′ham of Ge′dor.</p>
<p id="p117" class="p117 sb"><span id="chapter12_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8 </sup></strong>Some of the Gad′ites went over to David’s side at the stronghold in the wilderness; they were mighty warriors, soldiers trained for war, standing ready with the large shield and the lance, whose faces were like those of lions and who were as swift as the gazelles on the mountains. <span id="chapter12_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9 </sup></strong>E′zer was the head, O·ba·di′ah the second, E·li′ab the third, <span id="chapter12_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10 </sup></strong>Mish·man′nah the fourth, Jeremiah the fifth, <span id="chapter12_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11 </sup></strong>At′tai the sixth, E′li·el the seventh, <span id="chapter12_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12 </sup></strong>Jo·ha′nan the eighth, El·za′bad the ninth, <span id="chapter12_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13 </sup></strong>Jeremiah the tenth, Mach′ban·nai the eleventh. <span id="chapter12_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14 </sup></strong>These were of the Gad′ites, heads of the army. The least one was equal to 100, and the greatest to 1,000. <span id="chapter12_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15 </sup></strong>These are the men who crossed the Jordan in the first month when it was overflowing its banks, and they chased away all those living in the lowlands, to the east and to the west.</p>
<p id="p118" class="p118 sb"><span id="chapter12_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16 </sup></strong>Some of the men of Benjamin and Judah also came to David at his stronghold. <span id="chapter12_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17 </sup></strong>Then David went out before them and said to them: “If you have come to me in peace to help me, my heart will be united with you. But if it is to betray me to my adversaries when my hands have done no wrong, let the God of our forefathers see it and judge.” <span id="chapter12_verse18"></span><strong><sup>18 </sup></strong>Then the spirit came upon<span id="footnotesource80"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote80">*</a> A·ma′sai, the head of the thirty:</p>
<p id="p119" class="p119 sz">“We are yours, O David, and we are with you, O son of Jes′se.</p>
<p id="p120" class="p120 sz">Peace, peace be yours, and peace to the one helping you,</p>
<p class="p120 sz">For your God is helping you.”</p>
<p id="p121" class="p121 sb">So David received them and appointed them among the heads of the troops.</p>
<p id="p122" class="p122 sb"><span id="chapter12_verse19"></span><strong><sup>19 </sup></strong>Some from Ma·nas′seh also deserted to David when he came with the Phi·lis′tines to battle against Saul; but he did not help the Phi·lis′tines, for after consultation, the lords of the Phi·lis′tines sent him away, saying: “He will desert to his lord Saul, and it will cost us our heads.” <span id="chapter12_verse20"></span><strong><sup>20 </sup></strong>When he went to Zik′lag, these deserted to him from Ma·nas′seh: Ad′nah, Jo′za·bad, Je·di′a·el, Mi′cha·el, Jo′za·bad, E·li′hu, and Zil′le·thai, heads of the thousands of Ma·nas′seh. <span id="chapter12_verse21"></span><strong><sup>21 </sup></strong>They helped David against the marauder band, because all of them were mighty, courageous men, and they became chiefs in the army. <span id="chapter12_verse22"></span><strong><sup>22 </sup></strong>Day after <span id="page584"></span>day people kept coming to David to help him until it was a camp as great as the camp of God.</p>
<p id="p123" class="p123 sb"><span id="chapter12_verse23"></span><strong><sup>23 </sup></strong>This is the number of the heads of those armed for battle who came to David at Heb′ron to turn the kingship of Saul over to him according to Jehovah’s order. <span id="chapter12_verse24"></span><strong><sup>24 </sup></strong>The men of Judah carrying the large shield and the lance were 6,800, armed for battle. <span id="chapter12_verse25"></span><strong><sup>25 </sup></strong>Of the Sim′e·on·ites, the mighty, courageous men of the army were 7,100.</p>
<p id="p124" class="p124 sb"><span id="chapter12_verse26"></span><strong><sup>26 </sup></strong>Of the Levites, 4,600. <span id="chapter12_verse27"></span><strong><sup>27 </sup></strong>Je·hoi′a·da was the leader of the sons of Aaron, and with him were 3,700, <span id="chapter12_verse28"></span><strong><sup>28 </sup></strong>as well as Za′dok, a mighty and courageous young man, along with 22 chiefs from his paternal house.</p>
<p id="p125" class="p125 sb"><span id="chapter12_verse29"></span><strong><sup>29 </sup></strong>Of the Ben′ja·min·ites, the brothers of Saul, there were 3,000, of whom the greater number had previously been guarding the interests of the house of Saul. <span id="chapter12_verse30"></span><strong><sup>30 </sup></strong>Of the E′phra·im·ites, there were 20,800 mighty, courageous men of fame among their paternal houses.</p>
<p id="p126" class="p126 sb"><span id="chapter12_verse31"></span><strong><sup>31 </sup></strong>Of the half tribe of Ma·nas′seh, there were 18,000 who had been designated by name to come to make David king. <span id="chapter12_verse32"></span><strong><sup>32 </sup></strong>Of the tribe of Is′sa·char, who understood the times and knew what Israel should do, there were 200 of their headmen, and all their brothers were under their command. <span id="chapter12_verse33"></span><strong><sup>33 </sup></strong>Of Zeb′u·lun, there were 50,000 who could serve in the army, drawing up in battle formation with all the weapons of war, all joining David with undivided loyalty.<span id="footnotesource81"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote81">*</a> <span id="chapter12_verse34"></span><strong><sup>34 </sup></strong>Of Naph′ta·li, there were 1,000 chiefs, and with them were 37,000 with the large shield and the spear. <span id="chapter12_verse35"></span><strong><sup>35 </sup></strong>Of the Dan′ites, those drawing up in battle formation were 28,600. <span id="chapter12_verse36"></span><strong><sup>36 </sup></strong>And of Ash′er, those who could serve in the army for drawing up in battle formation were 40,000.</p>
<p id="p127" class="p127 sb"><span id="chapter12_verse37"></span><strong><sup>37 </sup></strong>From across the Jordan, of the Reu′ben·ites, the Gad′ites, and the half tribe of Ma·nas′seh, there were 120,000 soldiers with all kinds of weapons of war. <span id="chapter12_verse38"></span><strong><sup>38 </sup></strong>All of these were men of war, joining together in battle line; they came with a complete heart to Heb′ron to make David king over all Israel, and also all the rest of Israel were united in wanting<span id="footnotesource82"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote82">*</a> to make David king. <span id="chapter12_verse39"></span><strong><sup>39 </sup></strong>And they remained there with David for three days, eating and drinking, for their brothers had made preparation for them. <span id="chapter12_verse40"></span><strong><sup>40 </sup></strong>Also those near them, and even those as far as Is′sa·char, Zeb′u·lun, and Naph′ta·li, were bringing food on donkeys, camels, mules, and cattle—provisions of flour, cakes of pressed figs and raisins, wine, oil, and cattle and sheep in great quantity, for there was rejoicing in Israel.</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote80"><p><a href="050_1CH-.1-split12.xhtml#footnotesource80">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Chron. 12:18</span></a> Lit., “clothed.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote81"><p><a href="050_1CH-.1-split12.xhtml#footnotesource81">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Chron. 12:33</span></a> Or “all those joining David were not doublehearted.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote82"><p><a href="050_1CH-.1-split12.xhtml#footnotesource82">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Chron. 12:38</span></a> Lit., “were of one heart.”</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
