<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>1 Chronicles 5</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/docclass1.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
<p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">1 Chronicles</a>  <a href="biblechapternav13.xhtml">5</a> : <a href="bibleversenav13_5.xhtml">1 - 26</a></p>
<p id="p64" class="p64 sb"><span id="pos17878"></span><span id="chapter5"></span><span id="chapter5_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>5 </strong></span>These are the sons of Reu′ben, Israel’s firstborn. He was the firstborn, but because he defiled<span id="footnotesource29"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote29">*</a> the bed of his father, his right as firstborn was given to the sons of Joseph the son of Israel, so he was not enrolled genealogically for the right of the firstborn. <span id="chapter5_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2 </sup></strong>Though Judah was superior to his brothers and from him came the one to be the leader, the right as firstborn belonged to Joseph. <span id="chapter5_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3 </sup></strong>The sons of Reu′ben the firstborn of Israel were Ha′noch, Pal′lu, Hez′ron, and Car′mi. <span id="chapter5_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4 </sup></strong>The sons of Joel were She·mai′ah his son, Gog his son, Shim′e·i his son, <span id="chapter5_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5 </sup></strong>Mi′cah his son, Re·a′iah his son, Ba′al his son, <span id="chapter5_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6 </sup></strong>and Be·er′ah his son, whom King Til′gath-pil·ne′ser of As·syr′i·a took into exile; he was a chieftain of the Reu′ben·ites. <span id="chapter5_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7 </sup></strong>His brothers by their families in the genealogical enrollment by their descendants were, as the head, Je·i′el, Zech·a·ri′ah, <span id="chapter5_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8 </sup></strong>and Be′la son of A′zaz son of She′ma son of Joel, who lived in A·ro′er and as far as Ne′bo and Ba′al-me′on. <span id="chapter5_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9 </sup></strong>To the east he settled as far as the beginning of the wilderness at the Eu·phra′tes River, for their livestock had become numerous in the land of Gil′e·ad. <span id="chapter5_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10 </sup></strong>In the days <span id="page573"></span>of Saul, they waged war against the Hag′rites, who were defeated before them, so they dwelled in their tents throughout all the territory east of Gil′e·ad.</p>
<p id="p65" class="p65 sb"><span id="pos19210"></span><span id="chapter5_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11 </sup></strong>Now the descendants of Gad lived next to them in the land of Ba′shan as far as Sal′e·cah. <span id="chapter5_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12 </sup></strong>Joel was the head, Sha′pham the second, and Ja′nai and Sha′phat in Ba′shan. <span id="chapter5_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13 </sup></strong>And their brothers belonging to their paternal houses were Mi′cha·el, Me·shul′lam, She′ba, Jo′rai, Ja′can, Zi′a, and E′ber, seven in all. <span id="chapter5_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14 </sup></strong>These were the sons of Ab′i·ha·il son of Hu′ri son of Ja·ro′ah son of Gil′e·ad son of Mi′cha·el son of Je·shish′ai son of Jah′do son of Buz. <span id="chapter5_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15 </sup></strong>A′hi son of Ab′di·el son of Gu′ni was head of their paternal house. <span id="chapter5_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16 </sup></strong>They lived in Gil′e·ad, in Ba′shan and its dependent<span id="footnotesource30"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote30">*</a> towns, and in all the pastures of Shar′on as far as they extended. <span id="chapter5_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17 </sup></strong>They were all enrolled genealogically in the days of King Jo′tham of Judah and in the days of King Jer·o·bo′am<span id="footnotesource31"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote31">*</a> of Israel.</p>
<p id="p66" class="p66 sb"><span id="pos20021"></span><span id="chapter5_verse18"></span><strong><sup>18 </sup></strong>The Reu′ben·ites, the Gad′ites, and the half tribe of Ma·nas′seh had 44,760 mighty warriors in their army who carried shields and swords and were armed with bows,<span id="footnotesource32"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote32">*</a> and they were trained in war. <span id="chapter5_verse19"></span><strong><sup>19 </sup></strong>They waged war against the Hag′rites, Je′tur, Na′phish, and No′dab. <span id="chapter5_verse20"></span><strong><sup>20 </sup></strong>And they were helped in fighting them, so that the Hag′rites and all who were with them were given into their hand, for they called to God for help in the war, and he responded to their entreaty because they trusted in him. <span id="chapter5_verse21"></span><strong><sup>21 </sup></strong>They captured their livestock—50,000 camels, 250,000 sheep, and 2,000 donkeys—as well as 100,000 people.<span id="footnotesource33"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote33">*</a> <span id="chapter5_verse22"></span><strong><sup>22 </sup></strong>Many had fallen slain, because the war was waged by the true God. And they lived in their place until the time of the exile.</p>
<p id="p67" class="p67 sb"><span id="pos20777"></span><span id="chapter5_verse23"></span><strong><sup>23 </sup></strong>The descendants of the half tribe of Ma·nas′seh lived in the land from Ba′shan to Ba′al-her′mon and Se′nir and Mount Her′mon. They were numerous. <span id="chapter5_verse24"></span><strong><sup>24 </sup></strong>These were the heads of their paternal houses: E′pher, Ish′i, E′li·el, Az′ri·el, Jeremiah, Hod·a·vi′ah, and Jah′di·el; they were mighty warriors, men of fame, and heads of their paternal houses. <span id="chapter5_verse25"></span><strong><sup>25 </sup></strong>But they acted unfaithfully toward the God of their forefathers and prostituted themselves to the gods of the peoples of the land, whom God had annihilated from before them. <span id="chapter5_verse26"></span><strong><sup>26 </sup></strong>So the God of Israel stirred up the spirit of King Pul of As·syr′i·a (that is, King Til′gath-pil·ne′ser of As·syr′i·a) so that he took into exile those of the Reu′ben·ites, the Gad′ites, and the half tribe of Ma·nas′seh and brought them to Ha′lah, Ha′bor, Ha′ra, and the river Go′zan, where they are until this day.</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote29"><p><a href="050_1CH-.1-split5.xhtml#footnotesource29">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Chron. 5:1</span></a> Or “profaned.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote30"><p><a href="050_1CH-.1-split5.xhtml#footnotesource30">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Chron. 5:16</span></a> Or “surrounding.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote31"><p><a href="050_1CH-.1-split5.xhtml#footnotesource31">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Chron. 5:17</span></a> That is, Jeroboam II.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote32"><p><a href="050_1CH-.1-split5.xhtml#footnotesource32">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Chron. 5:18</span></a> Lit., “and tread the bow.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote33"><p><a href="050_1CH-.1-split5.xhtml#footnotesource33">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Chron. 5:21</span></a> Or “human souls.”</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
