<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>1 Chronicles 14</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/docclass1.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
<p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">1 Chronicles</a>  <a href="biblechapternav13.xhtml">14</a> : <a href="bibleversenav13_14.xhtml">1 - 17</a></p>
<p id="p131" class="p131 sb"><span id="pos58888"></span><span id="chapter14"></span><span id="chapter14_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>14 </strong></span>King Hi′ram of Tyre sent messengers to David, along with cedar timbers, stonemasons,<span id="footnotesource88"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote88">*</a> and woodworkers to build a house<span id="footnotesource89"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote89">*</a> for him. <span id="chapter14_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2 </sup></strong>And David knew that Jehovah had firmly established him as king over Israel, for his kingship was highly exalted for the sake of His people Israel.</p>
<p id="p132" class="p132 sb"><span id="pos59176"></span><span id="chapter14_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3 </sup></strong>David took more wives in Jerusalem, and David became father to more sons and daughters. <span id="chapter14_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4 </sup></strong>These are the names of the children born to him in Jerusalem: Sham·mu′a, Sho′bab, Nathan, Sol′o·mon, <span id="chapter14_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5 </sup></strong>Ib′har, E·li′shu·a, El′pe·let, <span id="chapter14_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6 </sup></strong>No′gah, Ne′pheg, Ja·phi′a, <span id="chapter14_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7 </sup></strong>E·lish′a·ma, Be·e·li′a·da, and E·liph′e·let.</p>
<p id="p133" class="p133 sb"><span id="pos59493"></span><span id="chapter14_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8 </sup></strong>When the Phi·lis′tines heard that David had been anointed as king over all Israel, all the Phi·lis′tines came up to search for David. When David heard about it, he went out against them. <span id="chapter14_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9 </sup></strong>Then the Phi·lis′tines came in and kept making raids in the Valley<span id="footnotesource90"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote90">*</a> of Reph′a·im. <span id="chapter14_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10 </sup></strong>David inquired of God, saying: “Should I go up against the Phi·lis′tines? Will you give them into my hand?” At this Jehovah said to him: “Go up, and I will surely give them into your hand.” <span id="chapter14_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11 </sup></strong>So David went up to Ba′al-pe·ra′zim, and he struck them down there. At that David said: “The true God has broken through my enemies by my hand, like a breach made by waters.” That is why they named that place Ba′al-pe·ra′zim.<span id="footnotesource91"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote91">*</a> <span id="chapter14_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12 </sup></strong>The Phi·lis′tines abandoned their gods there, and when David gave the order, these were burned in the fire.</p>
<p id="p134" class="p134 sb"><span id="page586"></span><span id="chapter14_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13 </sup></strong>Later the Phi·lis′tines once again made a raid in the valley.<span id="footnotesource92"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote92">*</a> <span id="chapter14_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14 </sup></strong>David again inquired of God, but the true God said to him: “Do not go directly up after them. Instead, go around behind them, and come against them in front of the ba′ca bushes. <span id="chapter14_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15 </sup></strong>And when you hear the sound of marching in the tops of the ba′ca bushes, launch your attack, for the true God will have gone out before you to strike down the army of the Phi·lis′tines.” <span id="chapter14_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16 </sup></strong>So David did just as the true God commanded him, and they struck down the Phi·lis′tine army from Gib′e·on to Ge′zer. <span id="chapter14_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17 </sup></strong>And David’s fame spread into all the lands, and Jehovah put the dread of him upon all the nations.</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote88"><p><a href="050_1CH-.1-split14.xhtml#footnotesource88">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Chron. 14:1</span></a> Or “builders of walls.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote89"><p><a href="050_1CH-.1-split14.xhtml#footnotesource89">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Chron. 14:1</span></a> Or “palace.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote90"><p><a href="050_1CH-.1-split14.xhtml#footnotesource90">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Chron. 14:9</span></a> Or “Low Plain.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote91"><p><a href="050_1CH-.1-split14.xhtml#footnotesource91">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Chron. 14:11</span></a> Meaning “Master of Breakings Through.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote92"><p><a href="050_1CH-.1-split14.xhtml#footnotesource92">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Chron. 14:13</span></a> Or “low plain.”</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
