<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>1 Chronicles 4</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/docclass1.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
<p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">1 Chronicles</a>  <a href="biblechapternav13.xhtml">4</a> : <a href="bibleversenav13_4.xhtml">1 - 43</a></p>
<p id="p55" class="p55 sb"><span id="pos12720"></span><span id="chapter4"></span><span id="chapter4_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>4 </strong></span>The sons of Judah were Pe′rez, Hez′ron, Car′mi, Hur, and Sho′bal. <span id="chapter4_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2 </sup></strong>Re·a′iah the son of Sho′bal became father to Ja′hath; Ja′hath became father to A·hu′mai and La′had. These were the families of the Zo′rath·ites. <span id="chapter4_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3 </sup></strong>These were the sons of the father of E′tam: Jez′re·el, Ish′ma, and Id′bash (and the name of their sister was Haz·ze·lel·po′ni), <span id="chapter4_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4 </sup></strong>and Pe·nu′el was the father of Ge′dor, and E′zer was the father of Hu′shah. These were the sons of Hur, the firstborn of Eph′ra·thah and the father of Beth′le·hem. <span id="chapter4_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5 </sup></strong>Ash′hur the father of Te·ko′a had two wives, He′lah and Na′a·rah. <span id="chapter4_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6 </sup></strong>Na′a·rah bore to him A·huz′zam, He′pher, Te′me·ni, and Ha·a·hash′ta·ri. These were the sons of Na′a·rah. <span id="chapter4_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7 </sup></strong>And the sons of He′lah were Ze′reth, Iz′har, and Eth′nan. <span id="chapter4_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8 </sup></strong>Koz became father to A′nub, Zo·be′bah, and the families of A·har′hel the son of Ha′rum.</p>
<p id="p56" class="p56 sb"><span id="pos13580"></span><span id="chapter4_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9 </sup></strong>Ja′bez was more honorable than his brothers; and his mother named him Ja′bez,<span id="footnotesource23"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote23">*</a> saying: “I gave birth to him in pain.” <span id="chapter4_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10 </sup></strong>Ja′bez called on the God of Israel, saying: “O that you would bless me and enlarge my territory and let your hand be with me and preserve me from calamity, so that it may bring no harm to me!” So God brought about what he had asked for.</p>
<p id="p57" class="p57 sb"><span id="chapter4_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11 </sup></strong>Che′lub the brother of Shu′hah became father to Me′hir, who was the father of Esh′ton. <span id="chapter4_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12 </sup></strong>Esh′ton became father to Beth-ra′pha, Pa·se′ah, and Te·hin′nah, the father of Ir-na′hash. These were the men of Re′cah. <span id="chapter4_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13 </sup></strong>And the sons of Ke′naz were Oth′ni·el and Se·rai′ah, and the son<span id="footnotesource24"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote24">*</a> of Oth′ni·el was Ha′thath. <span id="chapter4_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14 </sup></strong>Me·o′no·thai became father to Oph′rah. Se·rai′ah became father to Jo′ab the father of Ge-har′a·shim,<span id="footnotesource25"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote25">*</a> so called because they were craftsmen.</p>
<p id="p58" class="p58 sb"><span id="chapter4_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15 </sup></strong>The sons of Ca′leb the son of Je·phun′neh were I′ru, E′lah, and Na′am; and the son<span id="footnotesource26"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote26">*</a> of E′lah was Ke′naz. <span id="chapter4_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16 </sup></strong>The sons of Je·hal′le·lel were Ziph, Zi′phah, Tir′i·a, and As′a·rel. <span id="chapter4_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17 </sup></strong>The sons of Ez′rah were Je′ther, Me′red, E′pher, and Ja′lon; she<span id="footnotesource27"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote27">*</a> conceived and bore Mir′i·am, Sham′mai, and Ish′bah the father of Esh·te·mo′a. <span id="chapter4_verse18"></span><strong><sup>18 </sup></strong>(And his Jewish wife gave birth to Je′red the father of Ge′dor, He′ber the father of So′co, and Je·ku′thi·el the father of Za·no′ah.) These were the sons of Bi·thi′ah, the daughter of Phar′aoh, whom Me′red married.</p>
<p id="p59" class="p59 sb"><span id="chapter4_verse19"></span><strong><sup>19 </sup></strong>The sons of Ho·di′ah’s wife, the sister of Na′ham, were the fathers of Kei′lah the Gar′mite and Esh·te·mo′a the Ma·ac′a·thite. <span id="chapter4_verse20"></span><strong><sup>20 </sup></strong>And the sons of Shi′mon were Am′non, Rin′nah, Ben-ha′nan, and Ti′lon. And the sons of Ish′i were Zo′heth and Ben-zo′heth.</p>
<p id="p60" class="p60 sb"><span id="chapter4_verse21"></span><strong><sup>21 </sup></strong>The sons of She′lah the son of Judah were Er the father of Le′cah, La′a·dah the father of Ma·re′shah, and the families of the workers of fine fabric of the house of Ash·be′a, <span id="chapter4_verse22"></span><strong><sup>22 </sup></strong>and Jo′kim, the men of Co·ze′ba, Jo′ash, and Sa′raph, who became husbands of Mo′ab·ite women, and Jash′u·bi-le′hem. These records are ancient.<span id="footnotesource28"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote28">*</a> <span id="chapter4_verse23"></span><strong><sup>23 </sup></strong>They were potters who lived in Ne·ta′im and Ge·de′rah. They lived there and worked for the king.</p>
<p id="p61" class="p61 sb"><span id="page572"></span><span id="pos15678"></span><span id="chapter4_verse24"></span><strong><sup>24 </sup></strong>The sons of Sim′e·on were Nem′u·el, Ja′min, Ja′rib, Ze′rah, and Sha′ul. <span id="chapter4_verse25"></span><strong><sup>25 </sup></strong>Shal′lum was his son, Mib′sam his son, and Mish′ma his son. <span id="chapter4_verse26"></span><strong><sup>26 </sup></strong>And the sons of Mish′ma were Ham′mu·el his son, Zac′cur his son, Shim′e·i his son. <span id="chapter4_verse27"></span><strong><sup>27 </sup></strong>And Shim′e·i had 16 sons and 6 daughters; but his brothers did not have many sons, and none of their families had as many as the men of Judah had. <span id="chapter4_verse28"></span><strong><sup>28 </sup></strong>They lived in Be′er-she′ba, Mo·la′dah, Ha′zar-shu′al, <span id="chapter4_verse29"></span><strong><sup>29 </sup></strong>Bil′hah, E′zem, To′lad, <span id="chapter4_verse30"></span><strong><sup>30 </sup></strong>Be·thu′el, Hor′mah, Zik′lag, <span id="chapter4_verse31"></span><strong><sup>31 </sup></strong>Beth-mar′ca·both, Ha′zar-su′sim, Beth-bir′i, and Sha′a·ra′im. These were their cities until the reign of David.</p>
<p id="p62" class="p62 sb"><span id="chapter4_verse32"></span><strong><sup>32 </sup></strong>Their settlements were E′tam, A′in, Rim′mon, To′chen, and A′shan, five cities, <span id="chapter4_verse33"></span><strong><sup>33 </sup></strong>along with their settlements that were all around these cities as far as Ba′al. These were their genealogical enrollments and the places where they lived. <span id="chapter4_verse34"></span><strong><sup>34 </sup></strong>And Me·sho′bab, Jam′lech, Jo′shah the son of Am·a·zi′ah, <span id="chapter4_verse35"></span><strong><sup>35 </sup></strong>Joel, Je′hu son of Josh·i·bi′ah son of Se·rai′ah son of As′i·el, <span id="chapter4_verse36"></span><strong><sup>36 </sup></strong>and Eli·o·e′nai, Ja·a·ko′bah, Jesh·o·hai′ah, A·sai′ah, Ad′i·el, Je·sim′i·el, Be·nai′ah, <span id="chapter4_verse37"></span><strong><sup>37 </sup></strong>and Zi′za son of Shi′phi son of Al′lon son of Je·da′iah son of Shim′ri son of She·mai′ah; <span id="chapter4_verse38"></span><strong><sup>38 </sup></strong>these mentioned by name were the chieftains among their families, and the household of their forefathers increased in number. <span id="chapter4_verse39"></span><strong><sup>39 </sup></strong>And they went to the entrance of Ge′dor, to the east side of the valley, to look for pastures for their flocks. <span id="chapter4_verse40"></span><strong><sup>40 </sup></strong>They eventually found rich and good pastures, and the land was spacious, quiet, and undisturbed. Those who previously lived there were Ham′ites. <span id="chapter4_verse41"></span><strong><sup>41 </sup></strong>These whose names are listed came during the days of King Hez·e·ki′ah of Judah and struck down the tents of the Ham′ites and the Me·u′nim who were there. They devoted them to destruction down to this day; and they settled in their place because there were pastures for their flocks there.</p>
<p id="p63" class="p63 sb"><span id="chapter4_verse42"></span><strong><sup>42 </sup></strong>Some of the Sim′e·on·ites, 500 men, went to Mount Se′ir with Pel·a·ti′ah, Ne·a·ri′ah, Re·pha′iah, and Uz′zi·el, the sons of Ish′i who led them. <span id="chapter4_verse43"></span><strong><sup>43 </sup></strong>And they struck down the rest of the A·mal′ek·ites who had escaped, and they have lived there down to this day.</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote23"><p><a href="050_1CH-.1-split4.xhtml#footnotesource23">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Chron. 4:9</span></a> The name Jabez may be related to a Hebrew word meaning “pain.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote24"><p><a href="050_1CH-.1-split4.xhtml#footnotesource24">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Chron. 4:13</span></a> Lit., “sons.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote25"><p><a href="050_1CH-.1-split4.xhtml#footnotesource25">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Chron. 4:14</span></a> Meaning “Valley of Craftsmen.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote26"><p><a href="050_1CH-.1-split4.xhtml#footnotesource26">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Chron. 4:15</span></a> Lit., “sons.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote27"><p><a href="050_1CH-.1-split4.xhtml#footnotesource27">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Chron. 4:17</span></a> Possibly referring to Bithiah in vs. 18.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote28"><p><a href="050_1CH-.1-split4.xhtml#footnotesource28">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Chron. 4:22</span></a> Or “The sayings are of old tradition.”</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
