<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>1 Chronicles 6</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/docclass1.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
<p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">1 Chronicles</a>  <a href="biblechapternav13.xhtml">6</a> : <a href="bibleversenav13_6.xhtml">1 - 81</a></p>
<p id="p68" class="p68 sb"><span id="pos21642"></span><span id="chapter6"></span><span id="chapter6_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>6 </strong></span>The sons of Le′vi were Ger′shon, Ko′hath, and Me·rar′i. <span id="chapter6_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2 </sup></strong>The sons of Ko′hath were Am′ram, Iz′har, Heb′ron, and Uz′zi·el. <span id="chapter6_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3 </sup></strong>The children<span id="footnotesource34"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote34">*</a> of Am′ram were Aaron, Moses, and also Mir′i·am. And the sons of Aaron were Na′dab, A·bi′hu, El·e·a′zar, and Ith′a·mar. <span id="chapter6_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4 </sup></strong>El·e·a′zar became father to Phin′e·has; Phin′e·has became father to Ab·i·shu′a. <span id="chapter6_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5 </sup></strong>Ab·i·shu′a became father to Buk′ki; Buk′ki became father to Uz′zi. <span id="chapter6_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6 </sup></strong>Uz′zi became father to Zer·a·hi′ah; Zer·a·hi′ah became father to Me·ra′ioth. <span id="chapter6_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7 </sup></strong>Me·ra′ioth became father to Am·a·ri′ah; Am·a·ri′ah became father to A·hi′tub. <span id="page574"></span><span id="chapter6_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8 </sup></strong>A·hi′tub became father to Za′dok; Za′dok became father to A·him′a·az. <span id="chapter6_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9 </sup></strong>A·him′a·az became father to Az·a·ri′ah; Az·a·ri′ah became father to Jo·ha′nan. <span id="chapter6_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10 </sup></strong>Jo·ha′nan became father to Az·a·ri′ah. He served as priest in the house that Sol′o·mon built in Jerusalem.</p>
<p id="p69" class="p69 sb"><span id="chapter6_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11 </sup></strong>Az·a·ri′ah became father to Am·a·ri′ah; Am·a·ri′ah became father to A·hi′tub. <span id="chapter6_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12 </sup></strong>A·hi′tub became father to Za′dok; Za′dok became father to Shal′lum. <span id="chapter6_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13 </sup></strong>Shal′lum became father to Hil·ki′ah; Hil·ki′ah became father to Az·a·ri′ah. <span id="chapter6_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14 </sup></strong>Az·a·ri′ah became father to Se·rai′ah; Se·rai′ah became father to Je·hoz′a·dak. <span id="chapter6_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15 </sup></strong>And Je·hoz′a·dak went into exile when Jehovah took Judah and Jerusalem into exile by the hand of Neb·u·chad·nez′zar.</p>
<p id="p70" class="p70 sb"><span id="chapter6_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16 </sup></strong>The sons of Le′vi were Ger′shom,<span id="footnotesource35"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote35">*</a> Ko′hath, and Me·rar′i. <span id="chapter6_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17 </sup></strong>These are the names of the sons of Ger′shom: Lib′ni and Shim′e·i. <span id="chapter6_verse18"></span><strong><sup>18 </sup></strong>The sons of Ko′hath were Am′ram, Iz′har, Heb′ron, and Uz′zi·el. <span id="chapter6_verse19"></span><strong><sup>19 </sup></strong>The sons of Me·rar′i were Mah′li and Mu′shi.</p>
<p id="p71" class="p71 sb">These were the families of the Levites by their forefathers: <span id="chapter6_verse20"></span><strong><sup>20 </sup></strong>Of Ger′shom, Lib′ni his son, Ja′hath his son, Zim′mah his son, <span id="chapter6_verse21"></span><strong><sup>21 </sup></strong>Jo′ah his son, Id′do his son, Ze′rah his son, Je·ath′e·rai his son. <span id="chapter6_verse22"></span><strong><sup>22 </sup></strong>The sons<span id="footnotesource36"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote36">*</a> of Ko′hath were Am·min′a·dab his son, Kor′ah his son, As′sir his son, <span id="chapter6_verse23"></span><strong><sup>23 </sup></strong>El·ka′nah his son, E·bi′a·saph his son, As′sir his son, <span id="chapter6_verse24"></span><strong><sup>24 </sup></strong>Ta′hath his son, U·ri′el his son, Uz·zi′ah his son, and Sha′ul his son. <span id="chapter6_verse25"></span><strong><sup>25 </sup></strong>The sons of El·ka′nah were A·ma′sai and A·hi′moth. <span id="chapter6_verse26"></span><strong><sup>26 </sup></strong>As for El·ka′nah, the sons of El·ka′nah were Zo′phai his son, Na′hath his son, <span id="chapter6_verse27"></span><strong><sup>27 </sup></strong>E·li′ab his son, Je·ro′ham his son, El·ka′nah his son. <span id="chapter6_verse28"></span><strong><sup>28 </sup></strong>The sons of Samuel were Joel the firstborn and A·bi′jah the second. <span id="chapter6_verse29"></span><strong><sup>29 </sup></strong>The sons<span id="footnotesource37"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote37">*</a> of Me·rar′i were Mah′li, Lib′ni his son, Shim′e·i his son, Uz′zah his son, <span id="chapter6_verse30"></span><strong><sup>30 </sup></strong>Shim′e·a his son, Hag·gi′ah his son, and A·sai′ah his son.</p>
<p id="p72" class="p72 sb"><span id="pos24116"></span><span id="chapter6_verse31"></span><strong><sup>31 </sup></strong>These were the ones whom David appointed to direct the singing at the house of Jehovah after the Ark came to rest there. <span id="chapter6_verse32"></span><strong><sup>32 </sup></strong>They were responsible for the singing at the tabernacle of the tent of meeting until Sol′o·mon built the house of Jehovah in Jerusalem, and they carried out their service as prescribed for them. <span id="chapter6_verse33"></span><strong><sup>33 </sup></strong>These are the men who served with their sons: Of the Ko′hath·ites, He′man the singer, son of Joel son of Samuel <span id="chapter6_verse34"></span><strong><sup>34 </sup></strong>son of El·ka′nah son of Je·ro′ham son of E′li·el son of To′ah <span id="chapter6_verse35"></span><strong><sup>35 </sup></strong>son of Zuph son of El·ka′nah son of Ma′hath son of A·ma′sai <span id="chapter6_verse36"></span><strong><sup>36 </sup></strong>son of El·ka′nah son of Joel son of Az·a·ri′ah son of Zeph·a·ni′ah <span id="chapter6_verse37"></span><strong><sup>37 </sup></strong>son of Ta′hath son of As′sir son of E·bi′a·saph son of Kor′ah <span id="chapter6_verse38"></span><strong><sup>38 </sup></strong>son of Iz′har son of Ko′hath son of Le′vi son of Israel.</p>
<p id="p73" class="p73 sb"><span id="chapter6_verse39"></span><strong><sup>39 </sup></strong>His brother A′saph stood at his right hand; A′saph was son of Ber·e·chi′ah son of Shim′e·a <span id="chapter6_verse40"></span><strong><sup>40 </sup></strong>son of Mi′cha·el son of Ba·a·se′iah son of Mal·chi′jah <span id="chapter6_verse41"></span><strong><sup>41 </sup></strong>son of Eth′ni son of Ze′rah son of A·dai′ah <span id="chapter6_verse42"></span><strong><sup>42 </sup></strong>son of E′than son of Zim′mah son of Shim′e·i <span id="chapter6_verse43"></span><strong><sup>43 </sup></strong>son of Ja′hath son of Ger′shom son of Le′vi.</p>
<p id="p74" class="p74 sb"><span id="chapter6_verse44"></span><strong><sup>44 </sup></strong>The descendants of Me·rar′i their brothers were at the left hand; there was E′than son of Kish′i son of Ab′di son of Mal′luch <span id="chapter6_verse45"></span><strong><sup>45 </sup></strong>son of Hash·a·bi′ah son of Am·a·zi′ah son of Hil·ki′ah <span id="chapter6_verse46"></span><strong><sup>46 </sup></strong>son of Am′zi son of Ba′ni son of She′mer <span id="chapter6_verse47"></span><strong><sup>47 </sup></strong>son of Mah′li son of Mu′shi son of Me·rar′i son of Le′vi.</p>
<p id="p75" class="p75 sb"><span id="page575"></span><span id="pos25540"></span><span id="chapter6_verse48"></span><strong><sup>48 </sup></strong>Their brothers the Levites were appointed<span id="footnotesource38"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote38">*</a> for all the service of the tabernacle, the house of the true God. <span id="chapter6_verse49"></span><strong><sup>49 </sup></strong>Aaron and his sons made the sacrifices smoke on the altar of burnt offering and on the altar of incense, performing the duties connected with the most holy things, to make atonement for Israel, according to all that Moses the servant of the true God had commanded. <span id="chapter6_verse50"></span><strong><sup>50 </sup></strong>These were the descendants of Aaron: El·e·a′zar his son, Phin′e·has his son, Ab·i·shu′a his son, <span id="chapter6_verse51"></span><strong><sup>51 </sup></strong>Buk′ki his son, Uz′zi his son, Zer·a·hi′ah his son, <span id="chapter6_verse52"></span><strong><sup>52 </sup></strong>Me·ra′ioth his son, Am·a·ri′ah his son, A·hi′tub his son, <span id="chapter6_verse53"></span><strong><sup>53 </sup></strong>Za′dok his son, and A·him′a·az his son.</p>
<p id="p76" class="p76 sb"><span id="pos26214"></span><span id="chapter6_verse54"></span><strong><sup>54 </sup></strong>These were their settlements by their encampments<span id="footnotesource39"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote39">*</a> in their territory: for the descendants of Aaron belonging to the family of the Ko′hath·ites, as the first lot fell to them, <span id="chapter6_verse55"></span><strong><sup>55 </sup></strong>they gave them Heb′ron in the land of Judah, with its surrounding pastures. <span id="chapter6_verse56"></span><strong><sup>56 </sup></strong>But the field of the city and its settlements they gave to Ca′leb the son of Je·phun′neh. <span id="chapter6_verse57"></span><strong><sup>57 </sup></strong>And to the descendants of Aaron they gave the cities<span id="footnotesource40"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote40">*</a> of refuge, Heb′ron, also Lib′nah with its pastures, Jat′tir, Esh·te·mo′a with its pastures, <span id="chapter6_verse58"></span><strong><sup>58 </sup></strong>Hi′len with its pastures, De′bir with its pastures, <span id="chapter6_verse59"></span><strong><sup>59 </sup></strong>A′shan with its pastures, and Beth-she′mesh with its pastures; <span id="chapter6_verse60"></span><strong><sup>60 </sup></strong>and from the tribe of Benjamin, Ge′ba with its pastures, Al′e·meth with its pastures, and An′a·thoth with its pastures. All their cities for their families were 13 cities.</p>
<p id="p77" class="p77 sb"><span id="chapter6_verse61"></span><strong><sup>61 </sup></strong>To the rest of the Ko′hath·ites, there were allotted<span id="footnotesource41"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote41">*</a> ten cities, from the family of the tribe, from the half tribe, the half of Ma·nas′seh.</p>
<p id="p78" class="p78 sb"><span id="chapter6_verse62"></span><strong><sup>62 </sup></strong>To the Ger′shom·ites by their families they assigned 13 cities from the tribe of Is′sa·char, the tribe of Ash′er, the tribe of Naph′ta·li, and the tribe of Ma·nas′seh in Ba′shan.</p>
<p id="p79" class="p79 sb"><span id="chapter6_verse63"></span><strong><sup>63 </sup></strong>To the Me·rar′ites by their families they assigned by lot 12 cities from the tribe of Reu′ben, the tribe of Gad, and the tribe of Zeb′u·lun.</p>
<p id="p80" class="p80 sb"><span id="chapter6_verse64"></span><strong><sup>64 </sup></strong>Thus the Israelites gave the Levites these cities with their pastures. <span id="chapter6_verse65"></span><strong><sup>65 </sup></strong>Furthermore, they assigned by lot these cities from the tribe of Judah, the tribe of Sim′e·on, and the tribe of Benjamin, which are mentioned by their names.</p>
<p id="p81" class="p81 sb"><span id="chapter6_verse66"></span><strong><sup>66 </sup></strong>Some of the Ko′hath·ite families had cities from the tribe of E′phra·im as their territory. <span id="chapter6_verse67"></span><strong><sup>67 </sup></strong>They gave them the cities<span id="footnotesource42"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote42">*</a> of refuge, She′chem with its pastures in the mountainous region of E′phra·im, Ge′zer with its pastures, <span id="chapter6_verse68"></span><strong><sup>68 </sup></strong>Jok′me·am with its pastures, Beth-ho′ron with its pastures, <span id="chapter6_verse69"></span><strong><sup>69 </sup></strong>Ai′ja·lon with its pastures, and Gath-rim′mon with its pastures; <span id="chapter6_verse70"></span><strong><sup>70 </sup></strong>and from half of the tribe of Ma·nas′seh, A′ner with its pastures and Bil′e·am with its pastures, to the rest of the families of the Ko′hath·ites.</p>
<p id="p82" class="p82 sb"><span id="chapter6_verse71"></span><strong><sup>71 </sup></strong>To the Ger′shom·ites they assigned from the family of the half tribe of Ma·nas′seh, Go′lan in Ba′shan with its pastures and Ash′ta·roth with its pastures; <span id="chapter6_verse72"></span><strong><sup>72 </sup></strong>and from the tribe of Is′sa·char, Ke′desh with its pastures, Dab′e·rath with its pastures, <span id="chapter6_verse73"></span><strong><sup>73 </sup></strong>Ra′moth with its pastures, and A′nem with its pastures; <span id="chapter6_verse74"></span><strong><sup>74 </sup></strong>and from the tribe of Ash′er, Ma′shal with its pastures, Ab′don <span id="page576"></span>with its pastures, <span id="chapter6_verse75"></span><strong><sup>75 </sup></strong>Hu′kok with its pastures, and Re′hob with its pastures; <span id="chapter6_verse76"></span><strong><sup>76 </sup></strong>and from the tribe of Naph′ta·li, Ke′desh in Gal′i·lee with its pastures, Ham′mon with its pastures, and Kir·i·a·tha′im with its pastures.</p>
<p id="p83" class="p83 sb"><span id="chapter6_verse77"></span><strong><sup>77 </sup></strong>To the rest of the Me·rar′ites they assigned from the tribe of Zeb′u·lun, Rim′mo·no with its pastures, Ta′bor with its pastures; <span id="chapter6_verse78"></span><strong><sup>78 </sup></strong>and in the region of the Jordan at Jer′i·cho, to the east of the Jordan, from the tribe of Reu′ben, they were given Be′zer in the wilderness with its pastures, Ja′haz with its pastures, <span id="chapter6_verse79"></span><strong><sup>79 </sup></strong>Ked′e·moth with its pastures, and Meph′a·ath with its pastures; <span id="chapter6_verse80"></span><strong><sup>80 </sup></strong>and from the tribe of Gad, Ra′moth in Gil′e·ad with its pastures, Ma·ha·na′im with its pastures, <span id="chapter6_verse81"></span><strong><sup>81 </sup></strong>Hesh′bon with its pastures, and Ja′zer with its pastures.</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote34"><p><a href="050_1CH-.1-split6.xhtml#footnotesource34">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Chron. 6:3</span></a> Lit., “sons.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote35"><p><a href="050_1CH-.1-split6.xhtml#footnotesource35">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Chron. 6:16</span></a> Also called Gershon in vs. 1.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote36"><p><a href="050_1CH-.1-split6.xhtml#footnotesource36">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Chron. 6:22</span></a> Or “descendants.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote37"><p><a href="050_1CH-.1-split6.xhtml#footnotesource37">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Chron. 6:29</span></a> Or “descendants.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote38"><p><a href="050_1CH-.1-split6.xhtml#footnotesource38">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Chron. 6:48</span></a> Lit., “were the ones given.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote39"><p><a href="050_1CH-.1-split6.xhtml#footnotesource39">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Chron. 6:54</span></a> Or “walled camps.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote40"><p><a href="050_1CH-.1-split6.xhtml#footnotesource40">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Chron. 6:57</span></a> Or possibly, “city,” in agreement with Jos 21:13.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote41"><p><a href="050_1CH-.1-split6.xhtml#footnotesource41">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Chron. 6:61</span></a> Or “given by lot.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote42"><p><a href="050_1CH-.1-split6.xhtml#footnotesource42">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Chron. 6:67</span></a> Or possibly, “city,” in agreement with Jos 21:21.</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
