<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>1 Chronicles 7</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/docclass1.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
<p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">1 Chronicles</a>  <a href="biblechapternav13.xhtml">7</a> : <a href="bibleversenav13_7.xhtml">1 - 40</a></p>
<p id="p84" class="p84 sb"><span id="pos29523"></span><span id="chapter7"></span><span id="chapter7_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>7 </strong></span>Now the sons of Is′sa·char were To′la, Pu′ah, Ja′shub, and Shim′ron—four. <span id="chapter7_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2 </sup></strong>And the sons of To′la were Uz′zi, Re·pha′iah, Je′ri·el, Jah′mai, Ib′sam, and She·mu′el, the heads of their paternal houses. Descended from To′la were mighty warriors, whose number in the days of David was 22,600. <span id="chapter7_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3 </sup></strong>And the descendants<span id="footnotesource43"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote43">*</a> of Uz′zi were Iz·ra·hi′ah and the sons of Iz·ra·hi′ah: Mi′cha·el, O·ba·di′ah, Joel, and Is·shi′ah—all five of them were chiefs.<span id="footnotesource44"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote44">*</a> <span id="chapter7_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4 </sup></strong>And with them by their descendants, according to their paternal houses, there were 36,000 soldiers in their army available for war, for they had many wives and sons. <span id="chapter7_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5 </sup></strong>And their brothers of all the families of Is′sa·char were mighty warriors, 87,000 as listed in the genealogical enrollment.</p>
<p id="p85" class="p85 sb"><span id="pos30270"></span><span id="chapter7_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6 </sup></strong>The sons of Benjamin were Be′la, Be′cher, and Je·di′a·el—three. <span id="chapter7_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7 </sup></strong>And the sons of Be′la were Ez′bon, Uz′zi, Uz′zi·el, Jer′i·moth, and I′ri—five—heads of their paternal houses, mighty warriors, and 22,034 were in their genealogical enrollment. <span id="chapter7_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8 </sup></strong>And the sons of Be′cher were Ze·mi′rah, Jo′ash, E·li·e′zer, Eli·o·e′nai, Om′ri, Jer′e·moth, A·bi′jah, An′a·thoth, and Al′e·meth—all of these were the sons of Be′cher. <span id="chapter7_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9 </sup></strong>Their genealogical enrollment by their descendants as respects the heads of their paternal houses was 20,200 mighty warriors. <span id="chapter7_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10 </sup></strong>And the sons of Je·di′a·el were Bil′han and the sons of Bil′han: Je′ush, Benjamin, E′hud, Che·na′a·nah, Ze′than, Tar′shish, and A·hish′a·har. <span id="chapter7_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11 </sup></strong>All of these were the sons of Je·di′a·el, according to the heads of their forefathers, 17,200 mighty warriors ready to go out to the army for war.</p>
<p id="p86" class="p86 sb"><span id="chapter7_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12 </sup></strong>The Shup′pim and the Hup′pim were the sons of Ir; the Hu′shim were the sons of A′her.</p>
<p id="p87" class="p87 sb"><span id="pos31222"></span><span id="chapter7_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13 </sup></strong>The sons of Naph′ta·li were Jah′zi·el, Gu′ni, Je′zer, and Shal′lum—descendants<span id="footnotesource45"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote45">*</a> of Bil′hah.</p>
<p id="p88" class="p88 sb"><span id="pos31323"></span><span id="chapter7_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14 </sup></strong>The sons of Ma·nas′seh: As′ri·el, whom his Syrian concubine bore. (She bore Ma′chir the father of Gil′e·ad. <span id="chapter7_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15 </sup></strong>Ma′chir took a wife for Hup′pim and for Shup′pim, and the name of his sister was Ma′a·cah.) The name of the second was Ze·lo′phe·had, but Ze·lo′phe·had had daughters. <span id="chapter7_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16 </sup></strong>Ma′a·cah, Ma′chir’s wife, bore a son and named him Pe′resh; and the name of his brother was She′resh; and his sons were U′lam and Re′kem. <span id="chapter7_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17 </sup></strong>And the son<span id="footnotesource46"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote46">*</a> of U′lam was Be′dan. These were the sons of Gil′e·ad son of Ma′chir son of Ma·nas′seh. <span id="chapter7_verse18"></span><strong><sup>18 </sup></strong>And his sister was Ham·mo′le·cheth. She gave birth to Ish′hod, Abi-e′zer, and Mah′lah. <span id="chapter7_verse19"></span><strong><sup>19 </sup></strong>And the sons of She·mi′da were A·hi′an, She′chem, Lik′hi, and A·ni′am.</p>
<p id="p89" class="p89 sb"><span id="page577"></span><span id="pos32040"></span><span id="chapter7_verse20"></span><strong><sup>20 </sup></strong>The sons of E′phra·im were Shu′the·lah, Be′red his son, Ta′hath his son, E·le·a′dah his son, Ta′hath his son, <span id="chapter7_verse21"></span><strong><sup>21 </sup></strong>Za′bad his son, Shu′the·lah his son, E′zer, and E′le·ad. The men of Gath who were born in the land killed them because they went down to take their livestock. <span id="chapter7_verse22"></span><strong><sup>22 </sup></strong>E′phra·im their father carried on mourning for many days, and his brothers kept coming in to comfort him. <span id="chapter7_verse23"></span><strong><sup>23 </sup></strong>Afterward he had relations with his wife, and she became pregnant and gave birth to a son. But he named him Be·ri′ah<span id="footnotesource47"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote47">*</a> because it was with calamity that she was in his house. <span id="chapter7_verse24"></span><strong><sup>24 </sup></strong>And his daughter was She′e·rah, who built Lower and Upper Beth-ho′ron and Uz′zen-she′e·rah. <span id="chapter7_verse25"></span><strong><sup>25 </sup></strong>And there was Re′phah his son, Re′sheph, Te′lah his son, Ta′han his son, <span id="chapter7_verse26"></span><strong><sup>26 </sup></strong>La′dan his son, Am·mi′hud his son, E·lish′a·ma his son, <span id="chapter7_verse27"></span><strong><sup>27 </sup></strong>Nun his son, and Joshua<span id="footnotesource48"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote48">*</a> his son.</p>
<p id="p90" class="p90 sb"><span id="chapter7_verse28"></span><strong><sup>28 </sup></strong>Their possession and their settlements were Beth′el and its dependent<span id="footnotesource49"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote49">*</a> towns, and to the east Na′a·ran, and to the west Ge′zer and its dependent towns, and She′chem and its dependent towns, as far as Ay′yah<span id="footnotesource50"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote50">*</a> and its dependent towns; <span id="chapter7_verse29"></span><strong><sup>29 </sup></strong>and next to the descendants of Ma·nas′seh, Beth-she′an and its dependent towns, Ta′a·nach and its dependent towns, Me·gid′do and its dependent towns, and Dor and its dependent towns. In these the descendants of Joseph the son of Israel lived.</p>
<p id="p91" class="p91 sb"><span id="pos33405"></span><span id="chapter7_verse30"></span><strong><sup>30 </sup></strong>The sons of Ash′er were Im′nah, Ish′vah, Ish′vi, and Be·ri′ah, and their sister was Se′rah. <span id="chapter7_verse31"></span><strong><sup>31 </sup></strong>The sons of Be·ri′ah were He′ber and Mal′chi·el, who was the father of Bir′za·ith. <span id="chapter7_verse32"></span><strong><sup>32 </sup></strong>He′ber became father to Japh′let, Sho′mer, and Ho′tham, and to Shu′a their sister. <span id="chapter7_verse33"></span><strong><sup>33 </sup></strong>The sons of Japh′let were Pa′sach, Bim′hal, and Ash′vath. These were the sons of Japh′let. <span id="chapter7_verse34"></span><strong><sup>34 </sup></strong>The sons of She′mer<span id="footnotesource51"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote51">*</a> were A′hi, Roh′gah, Je·hub′bah, and A′ram. <span id="chapter7_verse35"></span><strong><sup>35 </sup></strong>The sons of He′lem<span id="footnotesource52"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote52">*</a> his brother were Zo′phah, Im′na, She′lesh, and A′mal. <span id="chapter7_verse36"></span><strong><sup>36 </sup></strong>The sons of Zo′phah were Su′ah, Har′ne·pher, Shu′al, Be′ri, Im′rah, <span id="chapter7_verse37"></span><strong><sup>37 </sup></strong>Be′zer, Hod, Sham′ma, Shil′shah, Ith′ran, and Be·e′ra. <span id="chapter7_verse38"></span><strong><sup>38 </sup></strong>The sons of Je′ther were Je·phun′neh, Pis′pah, and A′ra. <span id="chapter7_verse39"></span><strong><sup>39 </sup></strong>The sons of Ul′la were A′rah, Han′ni·el, and Ri·zi′a. <span id="chapter7_verse40"></span><strong><sup>40 </sup></strong>All of these were the sons of Ash′er, heads of their paternal houses, select, mighty warriors, heads of the chieftains; and their number listed in the genealogical enrollment was 26,000 men in the army available for war.</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote43"><p><a href="050_1CH-.1-split7.xhtml#footnotesource43">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Chron. 7:3</span></a> Lit., “sons.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote44"><p><a href="050_1CH-.1-split7.xhtml#footnotesource44">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Chron. 7:3</span></a> Lit., “heads.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote45"><p><a href="050_1CH-.1-split7.xhtml#footnotesource45">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Chron. 7:13</span></a> Lit., “sons.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote46"><p><a href="050_1CH-.1-split7.xhtml#footnotesource46">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Chron. 7:17</span></a> Lit., “sons.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote47"><p><a href="050_1CH-.1-split7.xhtml#footnotesource47">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Chron. 7:23</span></a> Meaning “With Calamity.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote48"><p><a href="050_1CH-.1-split7.xhtml#footnotesource48">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Chron. 7:27</span></a> Or “Jehoshua,” meaning “Jehovah Is Salvation.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote49"><p><a href="050_1CH-.1-split7.xhtml#footnotesource49">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Chron. 7:28</span></a> Or “surrounding.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote50"><p><a href="050_1CH-.1-split7.xhtml#footnotesource50">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Chron. 7:28</span></a> Or possibly, “Gaza,” though not the Gaza in Philistia.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote51"><p><a href="050_1CH-.1-split7.xhtml#footnotesource51">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Chron. 7:34</span></a> Also called Shomer in vs. 32.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote52"><p><a href="050_1CH-.1-split7.xhtml#footnotesource52">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Chron. 7:35</span></a> Likely the same as “Hotham” in vs. 32.</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
