<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>1 Chronicles 26</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/docclass1.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
<p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">1 Chronicles</a>  <a href="biblechapternav13.xhtml">26</a> : <a href="bibleversenav13_26.xhtml">1 - 32</a></p>
<p id="p226" class="p226 sb"><span id="pos100401"></span><span id="chapter26"></span><span id="chapter26_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>26 </strong></span>The divisions of gatekeepers were as follows: of the Kor′ah·ites, Me·shel·e·mi′ah the son of Ko′re of the sons of A′saph. <span id="chapter26_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2 </sup></strong>And Me·shel·e·mi′ah had sons: Zech·a·ri′ah the firstborn, Je·di′a·el the second, Zeb·a·di′ah the third, Jath′ni·el the fourth, <span id="chapter26_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3 </sup></strong>E′lam the fifth, Je·ho·ha′nan the sixth, El′ie·ho-e′nai the seventh. <span id="chapter26_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4 </sup></strong>And O′bed-e′dom had sons: She·mai′ah the firstborn, Je·hoz′a·bad the second, Jo′ah the third, Sa′car the fourth, Ne·than′el the fifth, <span id="chapter26_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5 </sup></strong>Am′mi·el the sixth, Is′sa·char the seventh, and Pe·ul′le·thai the eighth; for God had blessed him.</p>
<p id="p227" class="p227 sb"><span id="chapter26_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6 </sup></strong>And to his son She·mai′ah, there were sons born who were rulers of their paternal house, for they were mighty, capable men. <span id="chapter26_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7 </sup></strong>The sons of She·mai′ah: Oth′ni, Reph′a·el, O′bed, and El·za′bad; and his brothers E·li′hu and Sem·a·chi′ah were also capable men. <span id="chapter26_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8 </sup></strong>All of these were of the sons of O′bed-e′dom; they and their sons and their brothers were capable men and qualified for the service, 62 belonging to O′bed-e′dom. <span id="chapter26_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9 </sup></strong>And Me·shel·e·mi′ah had sons and brothers, 18 capable men. <span id="chapter26_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10 </sup></strong>And Ho′sah of the sons of Me·rar′i had sons. Shim′ri was the head, for although he was not the firstborn, his father appointed him as head, <span id="chapter26_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11 </sup></strong>Hil·ki′ah the second, Teb·a·li′ah the third, Zech·a·ri′ah the fourth. All the sons and brothers of Ho′sah were 13.</p>
<p id="p228" class="p228 sb"><span id="chapter26_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12 </sup></strong>Of these divisions of the gatekeepers, the headmen had duties just as their brothers did, to minister at the house of Jehovah. <span id="chapter26_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13 </sup></strong>So they cast lots, the small and the great alike by their paternal houses, for the different gates. <span id="chapter26_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14 </sup></strong>Then the lot to the east fell to Shel·e·mi′ah. For Zech·a·ri′ah his son, a discreet adviser, they cast the lots, and his lot came out to the north. <span id="chapter26_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15 </sup></strong>O′bed-e′dom had his to the south, and his sons were assigned the storehouses. <span id="chapter26_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16 </sup></strong>Shup′pim and Ho′sah had theirs to the west, near the Shal′lech·eth Gate by the highway that goes up, guard group corresponding to guard group; <span id="chapter26_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17 </sup></strong>there were six Levites to the east; to the north, four each day and to the south, four each day; and for the storehouses, two by two; <span id="chapter26_verse18"></span><strong><sup>18 </sup></strong>for the portico to the west, there were four at the highway and two at the portico. <span id="chapter26_verse19"></span><strong><sup>19 </sup></strong>These were the divisions of the gatekeepers from the sons of the Kor′ah·ites and of the Me·rar′ites.</p>
<p id="p229" class="p229 sb"><span id="pos102706"></span><span id="chapter26_verse20"></span><strong><sup>20 </sup></strong>As regards the Levites, A·hi′jah was in charge of the treasuries of the house of the true God and the treasuries of the things made holy.<span id="footnotesource146"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote146">*</a> <span id="chapter26_verse21"></span><strong><sup>21 </sup></strong>The sons of La′dan: the sons of the Ger′shon·ite belonging to La′dan, the heads of the paternal houses belonging to La′dan the Ger′shon·ite, Je·hi′e·li <span id="chapter26_verse22"></span><strong><sup>22 </sup></strong>and the sons of Je·hi′e·li, Ze′tham and his brother Joel. They were in charge of the treasuries of the house of Jehovah. <span id="chapter26_verse23"></span><strong><sup>23 </sup></strong>From the Am′ram·ites, the Iz′har·ites, the Heb′ron·ites, and the Uz·zi′el·ites, <span id="chapter26_verse24"></span><strong><sup>24 </sup></strong>Sheb′u·el son of Ger′shom son of Moses was a leader in charge of the storehouses. <span id="chapter26_verse25"></span><strong><sup>25 </sup></strong>As regards his brothers, of E·li·e′zer, there was Re·ha·bi′ah his son, Je·sha′iah his son, Jo′ram his son, Zich′ri his son, and She·lo′moth his son. <span id="chapter26_verse26"></span><strong><sup>26 </sup></strong>This She·lo′moth and his brothers were in charge of all the treasuries <span id="page600"></span>of the things made holy, which King David, the heads of the paternal houses, the chiefs of the thousands and of the hundreds, and the chiefs of the army had made holy. <span id="chapter26_verse27"></span><strong><sup>27 </sup></strong>From the wars and from the spoil, they had made things holy to maintain the house of Jehovah; <span id="chapter26_verse28"></span><strong><sup>28 </sup></strong>also, all that Samuel the seer, Saul the son of Kish, Ab′ner the son of Ner, and Jo′ab the son of Ze·ru′iah had made holy. Whatever anyone made holy was put in the care of She·lo′mith and his brothers.</p>
<p id="p230" class="p230 sb"><span id="chapter26_verse29"></span><strong><sup>29 </sup></strong>Of the Iz′har·ites, Chen·a·ni′ah and his sons were assigned outside administrative duties as officers and as judges over Israel.</p>
<p id="p231" class="p231 sb"><span id="chapter26_verse30"></span><strong><sup>30 </sup></strong>Of the Heb′ron·ites, Hash·a·bi′ah and his brothers, 1,700 capable men, were over the administration of Israel in the region west of the Jordan for all the work of Jehovah and for the king’s service. <span id="chapter26_verse31"></span><strong><sup>31 </sup></strong>Of the Heb′ron·ites, Je·ri′jah was the head of the Heb′ron·ites by line of descent of their paternal house. In the 40th year of David’s kingship, they were sought out, and mighty, capable men were found among them in Ja′zer in Gil′e·ad. <span id="chapter26_verse32"></span><strong><sup>32 </sup></strong>And his brothers numbered 2,700 capable men, heads of the paternal houses. So King David assigned them over the Reu′ben·ites, the Gad′ites, and the half tribe of the Ma·nas′sites, for every matter of the true God and matter of the king.</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote146"><p><a href="050_1CH-.1-split26.xhtml#footnotesource146">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Chron. 26:20</span></a> Or “the things dedicated.”</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
