<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>2 Chronicles 17</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/docclass1.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
<p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">2 Chronicles</a>  <a href="biblechapternav14.xhtml">17</a> : <a href="bibleversenav14_17.xhtml">1 - 19</a></p>
<p id="p93" class="p93 sb"><span id="pos54854"></span><span id="chapter17"></span><span id="chapter17_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>17 </strong></span>And his son Je·hosh′a·phat became king in his place, and he strengthened his position over Israel. <span id="chapter17_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2 </sup></strong>He stationed military forces in all the fortified cities of Judah and put garrisons in the land of Judah and in the cities of E′phra·im that A′sa his father had captured. <span id="chapter17_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3 </sup></strong>Jehovah continued with Je·hosh′a·phat because he walked in the former ways of his forefather David and did not search for the Ba′als. <span id="chapter17_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4 </sup></strong>For he searched for the God of his father and followed<span id="footnotesource123"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote123">*</a> his commandment and not the practices of Israel. <span id="chapter17_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5 </sup></strong>Jehovah kept the kingdom firmly established in his hand; and all Judah continued to give gifts to Je·hosh′a·phat, and he had riches and glory in abundance. <span id="chapter17_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6 </sup></strong>His heart became bold in the ways of Jehovah, and he even removed the high places and the sacred poles<span id="footnotesource124"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote124">*</a> from Judah.</p>
<p id="p94" class="p94 sb"><span id="pos55667"></span><span id="chapter17_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7 </sup></strong>In the third year of his reign he sent for his princes, Ben-ha′il, O·ba·di′ah, Zech·a·ri′ah, Ne·than′el, and Mi·cai′ah, to teach in the cities of Judah. <span id="chapter17_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8 </sup></strong>There were Levites with them: She·mai′ah, Neth·a·ni′ah, Zeb·a·di′ah, As′a·hel, She·mir′a·moth, Je·hon′a·than, Ad·o·ni′jah, To·bi′jah, and Tob-ad·o·ni′jah, and along with them E·lish′a·ma and Je·ho′ram the priests. <span id="chapter17_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9 </sup></strong>They began teaching in Judah, taking with them the book of Jehovah’s Law, and they went around through all the cities of Judah teaching among the people.</p>
<p id="p95" class="p95 sb"><span id="pos56202"></span><span id="chapter17_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10 </sup></strong>And the dread of Jehovah came upon all the kingdoms of the lands surrounding Judah, and they did not fight against Je·hosh′a·phat. <span id="chapter17_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11 </sup></strong>And the Phi·lis′tines brought to Je·hosh′a·phat gifts and money as tribute. The Arabs brought him 7,700 rams and 7,700 male goats from their flocks.</p>
<p id="p96" class="p96 sb"><span id="chapter17_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12 </sup></strong>Je·hosh′a·phat grew greater and greater, and he continued building fortified places and storage cities in Judah. <span id="chapter17_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13 </sup></strong>He carried out extensive projects in the cities of Judah, and <span id="page625"></span>he had soldiers, mighty warriors, in Jerusalem. <span id="chapter17_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14 </sup></strong>These were grouped by their paternal houses: of Judah the chiefs of thousands, Ad′nah the chief, and with him were 300,000 mighty warriors. <span id="chapter17_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15 </sup></strong>And under his command was Je·ho·ha′nan the chief, and with him were 280,000. <span id="chapter17_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16 </sup></strong>And also under his command was Am·a·si′ah the son of Zich′ri, who volunteered for Jehovah’s service, and with him were 200,000 mighty warriors. <span id="chapter17_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17 </sup></strong>And out of Benjamin was E·li′a·da, a mighty warrior, and with him were 200,000 men equipped with the bow and shield. <span id="chapter17_verse18"></span><strong><sup>18 </sup></strong>And under his command was Je·hoz′a·bad, and with him were 180,000 men equipped for the army. <span id="chapter17_verse19"></span><strong><sup>19 </sup></strong>These were ministering to the king in addition to those whom the king put in the fortified cities throughout all Judah.</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote123"><p><a href="052_2CH-.1-split17.xhtml#footnotesource123">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Chron. 17:4</span></a> Lit., “walked in.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote124"><p><a href="052_2CH-.1-split17.xhtml#footnotesource124">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Chron. 17:6</span></a> See Glossary.</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
