<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>2 Chronicles 22</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/docclass1.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
<p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">2 Chronicles</a>  <a href="biblechapternav14.xhtml">22</a> : <a href="bibleversenav14_22.xhtml">1 - 12</a></p>
<p id="p128" class="p128 sb"><span id="page631"></span><span id="pos75622"></span><span id="chapter22"></span><span id="chapter22_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>22 </strong></span>Then the inhabitants of Jerusalem made his youngest son A·ha·zi′ah king in his place, for the marauder band that came with the Arabs to the camp had killed all the older ones. So A·ha·zi′ah the son of Je·ho′ram began to reign as king of Judah. <span id="chapter22_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2 </sup></strong>A·ha·zi′ah was 22 years old when he became king, and he reigned for one year in Jerusalem. His mother’s name was Ath·a·li′ah the granddaughter<span id="footnotesource150"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote150">*</a> of Om′ri.</p>
<p id="p129" class="p129 sb"><span id="chapter22_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3 </sup></strong>He too walked in the ways of the house of A′hab, for his mother became his adviser in acting wickedly. <span id="chapter22_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4 </sup></strong>And he kept doing what was bad in Jehovah’s eyes, like the house of A′hab, for they became his advisers after the death of his father, to his destruction. <span id="chapter22_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5 </sup></strong>He followed their advice and went with Je·ho′ram the son of King A′hab of Israel to wage war against King Haz′a·el of Syria at Ra′moth-gil′e·ad, where the archers wounded Je·ho′ram. <span id="chapter22_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6 </sup></strong>He returned to Jez′re·el to recover from the wounds that they had inflicted on him at Ra′mah when he fought against King Haz′a·el of Syria.</p>
<p id="p130" class="p130 sb">A·ha·zi′ah<span id="footnotesource151"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote151">*</a> the son of Je·ho′ram the king of Judah went down to Jez′re·el to see Je·ho′ram the son of A′hab, because he had been wounded.<span id="footnotesource152"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote152">*</a> <span id="chapter22_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7 </sup></strong>But God brought about the downfall of A·ha·zi′ah by his coming to Je·ho′ram; and when he came, he went out with Je·ho′ram to meet Je′hu the grandson<span id="footnotesource153"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote153">*</a> of Nim′shi, whom Jehovah had anointed to do away with<span id="footnotesource154"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote154">*</a> the house of A′hab. <span id="chapter22_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8 </sup></strong>When Je′hu began to execute judgment on the house of A′hab, he found the princes of Judah and the sons of A·ha·zi′ah’s brothers, ministers of A·ha·zi′ah, and he killed them. <span id="chapter22_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9 </sup></strong>Then he looked for A·ha·zi′ah; they captured him where he was hiding in Sa·mar′i·a, and they brought him to Je′hu. Then they put him to death and buried him, for they said: “He is the grandson of Je·hosh′a·phat, who searched for Jehovah with all his heart.” There was no one of the house of A·ha·zi′ah who had the power to rule the kingdom.</p>
<p id="p131" class="p131 sb"><span id="pos77536"></span><span id="chapter22_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10 </sup></strong>When Ath·a·li′ah, A·ha·zi′ah’s mother, saw that her son had died, she rose up and destroyed the entire royal line<span id="footnotesource155"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote155">*</a> of the house of Judah. <span id="chapter22_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11 </sup></strong>However, Je·ho·shab′e·ath the daughter of the king took Je·ho′ash the son of A·ha·zi′ah and stole him away from among the sons of the king who were to be put to death, and she put him and his nurse in an inner bedroom. Je·ho·shab′e·ath the daughter of King Je·ho′ram (she was the wife of Je·hoi′a·da the priest and a sister of A·ha·zi′ah) managed to keep him concealed from Ath·a·li′ah, so that she did not put him to death. <span id="chapter22_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12 </sup></strong>He remained with them for six years, hidden at the house of the true God, while Ath·a·li′ah was ruling over the land.</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote150"><p><a href="052_2CH-.1-split22.xhtml#footnotesource150">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Chron. 22:2</span></a> Lit., “daughter.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote151"><p><a href="052_2CH-.1-split22.xhtml#footnotesource151">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Chron. 22:6</span></a> In some Hebrew manuscripts, “Azariah.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote152"><p><a href="052_2CH-.1-split22.xhtml#footnotesource152">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Chron. 22:6</span></a> Or “he was sick.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote153"><p><a href="052_2CH-.1-split22.xhtml#footnotesource153">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Chron. 22:7</span></a> Lit., “son.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote154"><p><a href="052_2CH-.1-split22.xhtml#footnotesource154">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Chron. 22:7</span></a> Lit., “cut off.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote155"><p><a href="052_2CH-.1-split22.xhtml#footnotesource155">^ <span class="footnoteref">2 Chron. 22:10</span></a> Lit., “all seed of the kingdom.”</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
