<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>Ezra 8</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/docclass1.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
<p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">Ezra</a>  <a href="biblechapternav15.xhtml">8</a> : <a href="bibleversenav15_8.xhtml">1 - 36</a></p>
<p id="p49" class="p49 sb"><span id="pos26694"></span><span id="chapter8"></span><span id="chapter8_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>8 </strong></span>Now these were the heads of their paternal houses and the genealogical enrollment of those who went up with me out of Babylon during the reign of King Ar·ta·xerx′es: <span id="chapter8_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2 </sup></strong>of the sons of Phin′e·has, Ger′shom; of the sons of Ith′a·mar, Daniel; of the sons of David, Hat′tush; <span id="chapter8_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3 </sup></strong>of the sons of Shec·a·ni′ah, of the sons of Pa′rosh, Zech·a·ri′ah, and with him there was an enrollment of 150 males; <span id="chapter8_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4 </sup></strong>of the sons of Pa′hath-mo′ab, El′ie·ho-e′nai the son of Zer·a·hi′ah, and with him 200 males; <span id="chapter8_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5 </sup></strong>of the sons of Zat′tu, Shec·a·ni′ah the son of Ja·ha·zi′el, and with him 300 males; <span id="chapter8_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6 </sup></strong>of the sons of A′din, E′bed the son of Jon′a·than, and with him 50 males; <span id="chapter8_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7 </sup></strong>of the sons of E′lam, Je·sha′iah the son of Ath·a·li′ah, and with him 70 males; <span id="chapter8_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8 </sup></strong>of the sons of Sheph·a·ti′ah, Zeb·a·di′ah the son of Mi′cha·el, and with him 80 males; <span id="chapter8_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9 </sup></strong>of the sons of Jo′ab, O·ba·di′ah the son of Je·hi′el, and with him 218 males; <span id="chapter8_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10 </sup></strong>of the sons of Ba′ni, She·lo′mith the son of Jo·si·phi′ah, and with him 160 males; <span id="chapter8_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11 </sup></strong>of the sons of Be′bai, Zech·a·ri′ah the son of Be′bai, and with him 28 males; <span id="chapter8_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12 </sup></strong>of the sons of Az′gad, Jo·ha′nan the son of Hak′ka·tan, and with him 110 males; <span id="chapter8_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13 </sup></strong>of the sons of Ad·o·ni′kam, those who were the last, and these were their names: E·liph′e·let, Je·i′el, and She·mai′ah, and with them 60 males; <span id="chapter8_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14 </sup></strong>and of the sons of Big′vai, U′thai and Zab′bud, and with them 70 males.</p>
<p id="p50" class="p50 sb"><span id="pos28116"></span><span id="chapter8_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15 </sup></strong>I assembled them at the river that comes to A·ha′va, and we camped there for three days. But when I examined the people and the priests, I did not find any of the Levites there. <span id="chapter8_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16 </sup></strong>So I sent for E·li·e′zer, Ar′i·el, She·mai′ah, El·na′than, Ja′rib, El·na′than, Nathan, Zech·a·ri′ah, and Me·shul′lam, who were leading men, and for Joi′a·rib and El·na′than, who were instructors. <span id="chapter8_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17 </sup></strong>Then I gave them a command concerning Id′do the leader in the place called Ca·si·phi′a. I told them to tell Id′do and his brothers, the temple servants<span id="footnotesource63"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote63">*</a> who were in Ca·si·phi′a, to bring to us ministers for the house of our God. <span id="chapter8_verse18"></span><strong><sup>18 </sup></strong>Since the good hand of our God was upon us, they brought a discreet man from the sons of Mah′li the grandson of Le′vi the son of Israel, namely, She·re·bi′ah, and his sons and his brothers, 18 men; <span id="chapter8_verse19"></span><strong><sup>19 </sup></strong>and Hash·a·bi′ah, and with him Je·sha′iah from the Me·rar′ites, his brothers and their sons, 20 men. <span id="chapter8_verse20"></span><strong><sup>20 </sup></strong>And there were 220 of the temple servants,<span id="footnotesource64"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote64">*</a> whom David and the princes gave to the service of the Levites, all of whom had been designated by name.</p>
<p id="p51" class="p51 sb"><span id="chapter8_verse21"></span><strong><sup>21 </sup></strong>Then I proclaimed a fast there at the river A·ha′va, to humble ourselves before our God, to seek guidance from him for our journey, for us and for our children and for all our goods. <span id="chapter8_verse22"></span><strong><sup>22 </sup></strong>I was ashamed to ask the king for soldiers and horsemen to protect us against the enemies along the way, because we had said to the king: “The good hand of our God is over all those seeking him, but his strength and his anger are against all those abandoning him.” <span id="chapter8_verse23"></span><strong><sup>23 </sup></strong>So we fasted and made request of our God concerning this, and he listened to our entreaty.</p>
<p id="p52" class="p52 sb"><span id="chapter8_verse24"></span><strong><sup>24 </sup></strong>I now set apart 12 of the chiefs of the priests, namely, <span id="page664"></span>She·re·bi′ah and Hash·a·bi′ah, along with ten of their brothers. <span id="chapter8_verse25"></span><strong><sup>25 </sup></strong>Then I weighed out to them the silver and the gold and the utensils, the contribution that the king and his advisers and his princes and all the Israelites who were present there had made to the house of our God. <span id="chapter8_verse26"></span><strong><sup>26 </sup></strong>Thus I weighed out into their hand 650 talents<span id="footnotesource65"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote65">*</a> of silver, 100 silver utensils worth 2 talents, 100 talents of gold, <span id="chapter8_verse27"></span><strong><sup>27 </sup></strong>20 small gold bowls worth 1,000 darics,<span id="footnotesource66"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote66">*</a> and 2 utensils of fine copper, gleaming red, as desirable as gold.</p>
<p id="p53" class="p53 sb"><span id="chapter8_verse28"></span><strong><sup>28 </sup></strong>Then I said to them: “You are holy to Jehovah, and the utensils are holy, and the silver and the gold are a voluntary offering to Jehovah the God of your forefathers. <span id="chapter8_verse29"></span><strong><sup>29 </sup></strong>Guard them carefully until you weigh them out before the chiefs of the priests and the Levites and the princes of the paternal houses of Israel in Jerusalem, in the chambers<span id="footnotesource67"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote67">*</a> of the house of Jehovah.” <span id="chapter8_verse30"></span><strong><sup>30 </sup></strong>And the priests and the Levites took the silver and the gold and the utensils that had been weighed out to them, in order to bring them to Jerusalem to the house of our God.</p>
<p id="p54" class="p54 sb"><span id="pos30931"></span><span id="chapter8_verse31"></span><strong><sup>31 </sup></strong>Finally we pulled away from the river A·ha′va on the 12th day of the first month to go to Jerusalem, and the hand of our God was over us, and he rescued us from the hand of the enemy and from ambush along the way. <span id="chapter8_verse32"></span><strong><sup>32 </sup></strong>So we came to Jerusalem and stayed there for three days. <span id="chapter8_verse33"></span><strong><sup>33 </sup></strong>And on the fourth day, we weighed out the silver and the gold and the utensils in the house of our God and handed them over to Mer′e·moth son of U·ri′jah the priest, and with him was El·e·a′zar son of Phin′e·has, and with them were the Levites Jo′za·bad son of Jesh′u·a and No·a·di′ah son of Bin′nu·i. <span id="chapter8_verse34"></span><strong><sup>34 </sup></strong>Everything was numbered and weighed, and all the weight was recorded. <span id="chapter8_verse35"></span><strong><sup>35 </sup></strong>Those coming out of the captivity, the former exiles, presented burnt sacrifices to the God of Israel, 12 bulls for all Israel, 96 rams, 77 male lambs, and 12 male goats as a sin offering; all of this was a burnt offering to Jehovah.</p>
<p id="p55" class="p55 sb"><span id="chapter8_verse36"></span><strong><sup>36 </sup></strong>Then we gave the decrees of the king to the satraps<span id="footnotesource68"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote68">*</a> of the king and the governors of the region Beyond the River,<span id="footnotesource69"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote69">*</a> and they supported the people and the house of the true God.</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote63"><p><a href="054_EZR-.1-split8.xhtml#footnotesource63">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ezra 8:17</span></a> Or “the Nethinim.” Lit., “the given ones.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote64"><p><a href="054_EZR-.1-split8.xhtml#footnotesource64">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ezra 8:20</span></a> Or “the Nethinim.” Lit., “the given ones.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote65"><p><a href="054_EZR-.1-split8.xhtml#footnotesource65">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ezra 8:26</span></a> A talent equaled 34.2 kg (1,101 oz t). See <a href="193_APPB.14B.xhtml">App. B14</a>.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote66"><p><a href="054_EZR-.1-split8.xhtml#footnotesource66">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ezra 8:27</span></a> A daric was a Persian gold coin. See <a href="193_APPB.14B.xhtml">App. B14</a>.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote67"><p><a href="054_EZR-.1-split8.xhtml#footnotesource67">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ezra 8:29</span></a> Or “dining halls.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote68"><p><a href="054_EZR-.1-split8.xhtml#footnotesource68">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ezra 8:36</span></a> Title meaning “protectors of the realm,” here applied to governors of provinces in the Persian Empire.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote69"><p><a href="054_EZR-.1-split8.xhtml#footnotesource69">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ezra 8:36</span></a> Or “of Trans-Euphrates.”</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
