<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>Nehemiah 10</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/docclass1.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
<p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">Nehemiah</a>  <a href="biblechapternav16.xhtml">10</a> : <a href="bibleversenav16_10.xhtml">1 - 39</a></p>
<p id="p87" class="p87 sb"><span id="page681"></span><span id="pos39750"></span><span id="chapter10"></span><span id="chapter10_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>10 </strong></span>Those who attested it by putting their seal to it were:</p>
<p id="p88" class="p88 sb">Ne·he·mi′ah the governor,<span id="footnotesource81"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote81">*</a> the son of Hac·a·li′ah,</p>
<p class="p88 sb">And Zed·e·ki′ah, <span id="chapter10_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2 </sup></strong>Se·rai′ah, Az·a·ri′ah, Jeremiah, <span id="chapter10_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3 </sup></strong>Pash′hur, Am·a·ri′ah, Mal·chi′jah, <span id="chapter10_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4 </sup></strong>Hat′tush, Sheb·a·ni′ah, Mal′luch, <span id="chapter10_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5 </sup></strong>Ha′rim, Mer′e·moth, O·ba·di′ah, <span id="chapter10_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6 </sup></strong>Daniel, Gin′ne·thon, Bar′uch, <span id="chapter10_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7 </sup></strong>Me·shul′lam, A·bi′jah, Mij′a·min, <span id="chapter10_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8 </sup></strong>Ma·a·zi′ah, Bil′gai, and She·mai′ah; these are the priests.</p>
<p id="p89" class="p89 sb"><span id="chapter10_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9 </sup></strong>Also the Levites: Jesh′u·a the son of Az·a·ni′ah, Bin′nu·i of the sons of Hen′a·dad, Kad′mi·el, <span id="chapter10_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10 </sup></strong>and their brothers Sheb·a·ni′ah, Ho·di′ah, Ke·li′ta, Pe·la′iah, Ha′nan, <span id="chapter10_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11 </sup></strong>Mi′ca, Re′hob, Hash·a·bi′ah, <span id="chapter10_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12 </sup></strong>Zac′cur, She·re·bi′ah, Sheb·a·ni′ah, <span id="chapter10_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13 </sup></strong>Ho·di′ah, Ba′ni, and Be·ni′nu.</p>
<p id="p90" class="p90 sb"><span id="chapter10_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14 </sup></strong>The heads of the people: Pa′rosh, Pa′hath-mo′ab, E′lam, Zat′tu, Ba′ni, <span id="chapter10_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15 </sup></strong>Bun′ni, Az′gad, Be′bai, <span id="chapter10_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16 </sup></strong>Ad·o·ni′jah, Big′vai, A′din, <span id="chapter10_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17 </sup></strong>A′ter, Hez·e·ki′ah, Az′zur, <span id="chapter10_verse18"></span><strong><sup>18 </sup></strong>Ho·di′ah, Ha′shum, Be′zai, <span id="chapter10_verse19"></span><strong><sup>19 </sup></strong>Ha′riph, An′a·thoth, Ne′bai, <span id="chapter10_verse20"></span><strong><sup>20 </sup></strong>Mag′pi·ash, Me·shul′lam, He′zir, <span id="chapter10_verse21"></span><strong><sup>21 </sup></strong>Me·shez′a·bel, Za′dok, Jad′du·a, <span id="chapter10_verse22"></span><strong><sup>22 </sup></strong>Pel·a·ti′ah, Ha′nan, A·nai′ah, <span id="chapter10_verse23"></span><strong><sup>23 </sup></strong>Ho·she′a, Han·a·ni′ah, Has′shub, <span id="chapter10_verse24"></span><strong><sup>24 </sup></strong>Hal·lo′hesh, Pil′ha, Sho′bek, <span id="chapter10_verse25"></span><strong><sup>25 </sup></strong>Re′hum, Ha·shab′nah, Ma·a·sei′ah, <span id="chapter10_verse26"></span><strong><sup>26 </sup></strong>A·hi′jah, Ha′nan, A′nan, <span id="chapter10_verse27"></span><strong><sup>27 </sup></strong>Mal′luch, Ha′rim, and Ba′a·nah.</p>
<p id="p91" class="p91 sb"><span id="chapter10_verse28"></span><strong><sup>28 </sup></strong>The rest of the people—the priests, the Levites, the gatekeepers, the singers, the temple servants,<span id="footnotesource82"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote82">*</a> and everyone who separated himself from the peoples of the lands to follow the Law of the true God, along with their wives, their sons, and their daughters, all those with knowledge and understanding<span id="footnotesource83"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote83">*</a>— <span id="chapter10_verse29"></span><strong><sup>29 </sup></strong>joined their brothers, their prominent men, and bound themselves with a curse and an oath, to walk in the Law of the true God, which had been given through Moses the servant of the true God, and to observe carefully all the commandments of Jehovah our Lord, his judgments, and his regulations. <span id="chapter10_verse30"></span><strong><sup>30 </sup></strong>We will not give our daughters to the peoples of the land, and we will not take their daughters for our sons.</p>
<p id="p92" class="p92 sb"><span id="chapter10_verse31"></span><strong><sup>31 </sup></strong>If the peoples of the land bring in their wares and every kind of grain to sell on the Sabbath day, we will not buy anything from them on the Sabbath or on a holy day. We will also forgo the produce of the seventh year and every outstanding debt.</p>
<p id="p93" class="p93 sb"><span id="chapter10_verse32"></span><strong><sup>32 </sup></strong>Also, we imposed the obligation on ourselves for each of us to give a third of a shekel<span id="footnotesource84"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote84">*</a> yearly for the service of the house<span id="footnotesource85"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote85">*</a> of our God, <span id="chapter10_verse33"></span><strong><sup>33 </sup></strong>for the layer bread,<span id="footnotesource86"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote86">*</a> the regular grain offering, the regular burnt offering of the Sabbaths and the new moons, and for the appointed feasts, for the holy things, for the sin offerings to make atonement for Israel, and for all the work of the house of our God.</p>
<p id="p94" class="p94 sb"><span id="chapter10_verse34"></span><strong><sup>34 </sup></strong>Also, we cast lots concerning the supply of the wood that the priests, the Levites, and the people should bring to the house of our God by our paternal houses, at the appointed times, year by year, to burn on the altar of Jehovah our God, according to what is written in the Law. <span id="chapter10_verse35"></span><strong><sup>35 </sup></strong>We will also bring the first ripe fruits of our land <span id="page682"></span>and the first ripe fruits of every sort of fruit tree, year by year, to the house of Jehovah, <span id="chapter10_verse36"></span><strong><sup>36 </sup></strong>as well as the firstborn of our sons and of our livestock—according to what is written in the Law—and the firstborn of our herds and of our flocks. We will bring them to the house of our God, to the priests who minister at the house of our God. <span id="chapter10_verse37"></span><strong><sup>37 </sup></strong>Also, the firstfruits of our coarse meal, our contributions, the fruitage of every sort of tree, new wine, and oil, we should bring to the priests to the storerooms<span id="footnotesource87"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote87">*</a> of the house of our God, along with the tenth<span id="footnotesource88"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote88">*</a> from our land to the Levites, for the Levites are the ones who collect the tenths in all our agricultural cities.</p>
<p id="p95" class="p95 sb"><span id="chapter10_verse38"></span><strong><sup>38 </sup></strong>And the priest, the son of Aaron, must be with the Levites when the Levites collect the tenth; and the Levites should offer up a tenth of the tenth to the house of our God, to the rooms<span id="footnotesource89"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote89">*</a> of the storehouse. <span id="pos43682"></span><span id="chapter10_verse39"></span><strong><sup>39 </sup></strong>For it is to the storerooms<span id="footnotesource90"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote90">*</a> that the Israelites and the sons of the Levites should bring the contribution of the grain, the new wine, and the oil, and that is where the utensils of the sanctuary are, as well as the priests who minister, the gatekeepers, and the singers. We will not neglect the house of our God.</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote81"><p><a href="056_NE-1-split10.xhtml#footnotesource81">^ <span class="footnoteref">Neh. 10:1</span></a> Or “the Tirshatha,” a Persian title for a governor of a province.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote82"><p><a href="056_NE-1-split10.xhtml#footnotesource82">^ <span class="footnoteref">Neh. 10:28</span></a> Or “the Nethinim.” Lit., “the given ones.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote83"><p><a href="056_NE-1-split10.xhtml#footnotesource83">^ <span class="footnoteref">Neh. 10:28</span></a> Or possibly, “all those old enough to understand.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote84"><p><a href="056_NE-1-split10.xhtml#footnotesource84">^ <span class="footnoteref">Neh. 10:32</span></a> A shekel equaled 11.4 g (0.367 oz t). See <a href="193_APPB.14B.xhtml">App. B14</a>.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote85"><p><a href="056_NE-1-split10.xhtml#footnotesource85">^ <span class="footnoteref">Neh. 10:32</span></a> Or “temple.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote86"><p><a href="056_NE-1-split10.xhtml#footnotesource86">^ <span class="footnoteref">Neh. 10:33</span></a> That is, the showbread.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote87"><p><a href="056_NE-1-split10.xhtml#footnotesource87">^ <span class="footnoteref">Neh. 10:37</span></a> Or “dining halls.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote88"><p><a href="056_NE-1-split10.xhtml#footnotesource88">^ <span class="footnoteref">Neh. 10:37</span></a> Or “tithes.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote89"><p><a href="056_NE-1-split10.xhtml#footnotesource89">^ <span class="footnoteref">Neh. 10:38</span></a> Or “dining halls.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote90"><p><a href="056_NE-1-split10.xhtml#footnotesource90">^ <span class="footnoteref">Neh. 10:39</span></a> Or “dining halls.”</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
