<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>Esther 6</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/docclass1.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
<p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">Esther</a>  <a href="biblechapternav17.xhtml">6</a> : <a href="bibleversenav17_6.xhtml">1 - 14</a></p>
<p id="p31" class="p31 sb"><span id="pos17133"></span><span id="chapter6"></span><span id="chapter6_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>6 </strong></span>That night the king could not sleep.<span id="footnotesource69"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote69">*</a> So he said to bring the book of the historical records of the times, and it was read to the king. <span id="chapter6_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2 </sup></strong>There it was found written what Mor′de·cai had reported concerning Big·tha′na and Te′resh, two court officials of the king, doorkeepers, who had plotted to do away with<span id="footnotesource70"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote70">*</a> King A·has·u·e′rus. <span id="chapter6_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3 </sup></strong>The king asked: “What honor and recognition has been given to Mor′de·cai for this?” To this the king’s personal attendants said: “Nothing has been done for him.”</p>
<p id="p32" class="p32 sb"><span id="chapter6_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4 </sup></strong>Later the king said: “Who is in the courtyard?” Now Ha′man had come into the outer courtyard of the king’s house<span id="footnotesource71"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote71">*</a> to speak to the king about having Mor′de·cai hanged on the stake that he had prepared for him. <span id="chapter6_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5 </sup></strong>The king’s attendants said to him: “It is Ha′man standing in the courtyard.” So the king said: “Have him come in.”</p>
<p id="p33" class="p33 sb"><span id="chapter6_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6 </sup></strong>When Ha′man came in, the king said to him: “What should be done for the man whom the king wishes to honor?” Ha′man <span id="page694"></span>said in his heart: “Whom would the king wish to honor more than me?” <span id="chapter6_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7 </sup></strong>So Ha′man said to the king: “For the man whom the king wishes to honor, <span id="chapter6_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8 </sup></strong>let them bring royal attire that the king wears and a horse on which the king rides, with the royal headdress on its head. <span id="chapter6_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9 </sup></strong>Then let the attire and the horse be put into the charge of one of the king’s noble princes, and they should clothe the man whom the king wishes to honor and have him ride on the horse in the public square of the city. They should call out before him: ‘This is what is done for the man whom the king wishes to honor!’” <span id="chapter6_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10 </sup></strong>At once the king said to Ha′man: “Quick! Take the attire and the horse, and do what you just said for Mor′de·cai the Jew who is sitting in the king’s gate. Do not leave out anything that you have said.”</p>
<p id="p34" class="p34 sb"><span id="chapter6_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11 </sup></strong>So Ha′man took the attire and the horse, and he clothed Mor′de·cai and made him ride in the public square of the city and called out before him: “This is what is done for the man whom the king wishes to honor!” <span id="chapter6_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12 </sup></strong>Afterward Mor′de·cai returned to the king’s gate, but Ha′man hurried to his house, mourning with his head covered. <span id="chapter6_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13 </sup></strong>When Ha′man related to his wife Ze′resh and to all his friends everything that had happened to him, his wise men and his wife Ze′resh said to him: “If Mor′de·cai, before whom you have started to fall, is of Jewish descent,<span id="footnotesource72"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote72">*</a> you will not prevail against him; you will surely fall before him.”</p>
<p id="p35" class="p35 sb"><span id="chapter6_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14 </sup></strong>While they were still speaking with him, the king’s court officials arrived and quickly took Ha′man to the banquet that Esther had made.</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote69"><p><a href="058_ES-1-split6.xhtml#footnotesource69">^ <span class="footnoteref">Esther 6:1</span></a> Lit., “the king’s sleep fled.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote70"><p><a href="058_ES-1-split6.xhtml#footnotesource70">^ <span class="footnoteref">Esther 6:2</span></a> Lit., “to lay hand on.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote71"><p><a href="058_ES-1-split6.xhtml#footnotesource71">^ <span class="footnoteref">Esther 6:4</span></a> Or “palace.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote72"><p><a href="058_ES-1-split6.xhtml#footnotesource72">^ <span class="footnoteref">Esther 6:13</span></a> Lit., “from the seed of the Jews.”</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
