<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>Ecclesiastes 4</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/docclass1.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
<p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">Ecclesiastes</a>  <a href="biblechapternav21.xhtml">4</a> : <a href="bibleversenav21_4.xhtml">1 - 16</a></p>
<p id="p40" class="p40 sb"><span id="pos9051"></span><span id="chapter4"></span><span id="chapter4_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>4 </strong></span>Again I turned my attention to all the acts of oppression that go on under the sun. I saw the tears of the oppressed, and there was no one to comfort them. And their oppressors had the power, and there was no one to comfort them. <span id="chapter4_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2 </sup></strong>And I congratulated the dead who had already died rather than the living who were still alive. <span id="chapter4_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3 </sup></strong>And better off than both of them is the one who has not yet been born, who has not seen the distressing deeds that are done under the sun.</p>
<p id="p41" class="p41 sb"><span id="pos9529"></span><span id="chapter4_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4 </sup></strong>And I have seen how much effort<span id="footnotesource29"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote29">*</a> and skillful work spring from rivalry between people; this too is futility, a chasing after the wind.</p>
<p id="p42" class="p42 sb"><span id="chapter4_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5 </sup></strong>The stupid one folds his hands while his flesh wastes away.<span id="footnotesource30"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote30">*</a></p>
<p id="p43" class="p43 sb"><span id="chapter4_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6 </sup></strong>Better is a handful of rest than two handfuls of hard work and chasing after the wind.</p>
<p id="p44" class="p44 sb"><span id="pos9825"></span><span id="chapter4_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7 </sup></strong>I turned my attention to another example of futility under the sun: <span id="chapter4_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8 </sup></strong>There is a man who is all alone, without any companion; he has no son or brother, but there is no end to all his hard work. His eyes are never satisfied with riches. But does he ask himself, ‘For whom am I working hard and depriving myself<span id="footnotesource31"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote31">*</a> of good things’? This too is futility and a miserable occupation.</p>
<p id="p45" class="p45 sb"><span id="pos10210"></span><span id="chapter4_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9 </sup></strong>Two are better than one because they have a good reward<span id="footnotesource32"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote32">*</a> for their hard work. <span id="chapter4_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10 </sup></strong>For if one of them falls, the other can help his partner up. But what will happen to the one who falls with no one to help him up?</p>
<p id="p46" class="p46 sb"><span id="chapter4_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11 </sup></strong>Moreover, if two lie down together, they will stay warm, but how can just one keep warm? <span id="chapter4_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12 </sup></strong>And someone may overpower one alone, but two together can take a stand against him. And a threefold cord cannot quickly<span id="footnotesource33"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote33">*</a> be torn apart.</p>
<p id="p47" class="p47 sb"><span id="pos10670"></span><span id="chapter4_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13 </sup></strong>Better is a poor but wise child than an old but stupid king, who no longer has enough sense to heed a warning. <span id="chapter4_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14 </sup></strong>For he<span id="footnotesource34"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote34">*</a> went out from prison to become king, although in that one’s kingship he was born poor. <span id="chapter4_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15 </sup></strong>I considered all those alive who walk about under the sun, as well as how it goes with the young successor who stands up in the other’s place. <span id="chapter4_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16 </sup></strong>Although there is no end to all his supporters, those who come later will not be happy with him. This too is futility, a chasing after the wind.</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote29"><p><a href="066_EC-1-split4.xhtml#footnotesource29">^ <span class="footnoteref">Eccl. 4:4</span></a> Or “hard work.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote30"><p><a href="066_EC-1-split4.xhtml#footnotesource30">^ <span class="footnoteref">Eccl. 4:5</span></a> Lit., “and is eating his own flesh.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote31"><p><a href="066_EC-1-split4.xhtml#footnotesource31">^ <span class="footnoteref">Eccl. 4:8</span></a> Or “my soul.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote32"><p><a href="066_EC-1-split4.xhtml#footnotesource32">^ <span class="footnoteref">Eccl. 4:9</span></a> Or “greater benefit.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote33"><p><a href="066_EC-1-split4.xhtml#footnotesource33">^ <span class="footnoteref">Eccl. 4:12</span></a> Or “easily.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote34"><p><a href="066_EC-1-split4.xhtml#footnotesource34">^ <span class="footnoteref">Eccl. 4:14</span></a> Perhaps referring to the wise child.</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
