<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>Isaiah 16</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/docclass1.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
<p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">Isaiah</a>  <a href="biblechapternav23.xhtml">16</a> : <a href="bibleversenav23_16.xhtml">1 - 14</a></p>
<p id="p418" class="p418 sl"><span id="pos48192"></span><span id="chapter16"></span><span id="chapter16_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>16 </strong></span>Send a ram to the ruler of the land,</p>
<p class="p418 sl">From Se′la through the wilderness</p>
<p class="p418 sl">To the mountain of the daughter of Zion.</p>
<p id="p419" class="p419 sl"><span id="chapter16_verse2"></span> <strong><sup>2 </sup></strong>Like a bird chased away from its nest,</p>
<p class="p419 sl">So the daughters of Mo′ab will be at the fords of Ar′non.</p>
<p id="p420" class="p420 sl"><span id="chapter16_verse3"></span> <strong><sup>3 </sup></strong>“Offer counsel, carry out the decision.</p>
<p id="p421" class="p421 sz">Make your shadow at high noon like the night.</p>
<p id="p422" class="p422 sz">Conceal the dispersed and do not betray those fleeing.</p>
<p id="p423" class="p423 sl"><span id="chapter16_verse4"></span> <strong><sup>4 </sup></strong>May my dispersed ones reside in you, O Mo′ab.</p>
<p id="p424" class="p424 sz">Become a place of concealment to them because of the destroyer.</p>
<p id="p425" class="p425 sz">The oppressor will reach his end,</p>
<p class="p425 sz">The destruction will come to an end,</p>
<p class="p425 sz">And those trampling others down will perish from the earth.</p>
<p id="p426" class="p426 sl"><span id="chapter16_verse5"></span> <strong><sup>5 </sup></strong>Then a throne will be firmly established in loyal love.</p>
<p id="p427" class="p427 sz">The one who sits on it in the tent of David will be faithful;</p>
<p class="p427 sz">He will judge fairly and will swiftly execute righteousness.”</p>
<p id="p428" class="p428 sl"><span id="chapter16_verse6"></span> <strong><sup>6 </sup></strong>We have heard about the pride of Mo′ab—he is very proud—</p>
<p class="p428 sl">His haughtiness and his pride and his fury;</p>
<p class="p428 sl">But his empty talk will come to nothing.</p>
<p id="p429" class="p429 sl"><span id="chapter16_verse7"></span> <strong><sup>7 </sup></strong>So Mo′ab will wail for Mo′ab;</p>
<p class="p429 sl">They will all wail.</p>
<p id="p430" class="p430 sz">Those who are stricken will moan for the raisin cakes of Kir-har′e·seth.</p>
<p id="p431" class="p431 sl"><span id="chapter16_verse8"></span> <strong><sup>8 </sup></strong>For the terraces of Hesh′bon have withered,</p>
<p class="p431 sl">The vine of Sib′mah,</p>
<p class="p431 sl">The rulers of the nations have trampled its bright-red branches;<span id="footnotesource128"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote128">*</a></p>
<p class="p431 sl">They had reached as far as Ja′zer;</p>
<p class="p431 sl">They had extended into the wilderness.</p>
<p id="p432" class="p432 sz"><span id="page959"></span>Its shoots had spread out and gone as far as the sea.</p>
<p id="p433" class="p433 sl"><span id="chapter16_verse9"></span> <strong><sup>9 </sup></strong>That is why I will weep over the vine of Sib′mah as I weep for Ja′zer.</p>
<p id="p434" class="p434 sz">With my tears I will drench you, O Hesh′bon and E·le·a′leh,</p>
<p class="p434 sz">Because the shouting over your summer fruit and your harvest has ended.<span id="footnotesource129"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote129">*</a></p>
<p id="p435" class="p435 sl"><span id="chapter16_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10 </sup></strong>Rejoicing and joyfulness have been taken away from the orchard,</p>
<p class="p435 sl">And there are no songs of joy or shouting in the vineyards.</p>
<p id="p436" class="p436 sz">The treader no longer treads out wine in the presses,</p>
<p class="p436 sz">For I have caused the shouting to cease.</p>
<p id="p437" class="p437 sl"><span id="chapter16_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11 </sup></strong>That is why deep within me I am boisterous over Mo′ab,</p>
<p class="p437 sl">Like the strumming of a harp,</p>
<p class="p437 sl">And my innermost being over Kir-har′e·seth.</p>
<p id="p438" class="p438 sb"><span id="chapter16_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12 </sup></strong>Even when Mo′ab wears himself out on the high place and goes to pray in his sanctuary, he will accomplish nothing.</p>
<p id="p439" class="p439 sb"><span id="chapter16_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13 </sup></strong>This is the word that Jehovah previously spoke concerning Mo′ab. <span id="chapter16_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14 </sup></strong>And now Jehovah says: “Within three years, like the years of a hired worker,<span id="footnotesource130"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote130">*</a> the glory of Mo′ab will be disgraced with much tumult of every sort, and those who remain will be very few and insignificant.”</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote128"><p><a href="070_ISA-.1-split16.xhtml#footnotesource128">^ <span class="footnoteref">Isa. 16:8</span></a> Or “its branches laden with red grapes.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote129"><p><a href="070_ISA-.1-split16.xhtml#footnotesource129">^ <span class="footnoteref">Isa. 16:9</span></a> Or possibly, “Because the battle cry has descended on your summer fruit and your harvest.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote130"><p><a href="070_ISA-.1-split16.xhtml#footnotesource130">^ <span class="footnoteref">Isa. 16:14</span></a> Or “counted as carefully as a hired worker does”; that is, in exactly three years.</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
