<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>Isaiah 62</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/docclass1.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
<p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">Isaiah</a>  <a href="biblechapternav23.xhtml">62</a> : <a href="bibleversenav23_62.xhtml">1 - 12</a></p>
<p id="p1884" class="p1884 sl"><span id="pos196780"></span><span id="chapter62"></span><span id="chapter62_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>62 </strong></span>For the sake of Zion I will not keep silent,</p>
<p class="p1884 sl">And for the sake of Jerusalem I will not keep still</p>
<p class="p1884 sl">Until her righteousness shines like a bright light</p>
<p class="p1884 sl">And her salvation burns like a torch.</p>
<p id="p1885" class="p1885 sl"><span id="chapter62_verse2"></span> <strong><sup>2 </sup></strong>“The nations will see your righteousness, O woman,</p>
<p class="p1885 sl">And all kings your glory.</p>
<p id="p1886" class="p1886 sz">And you will be called by a new name,</p>
<p class="p1886 sz">Which Jehovah’s own mouth will designate.</p>
<p id="p1887" class="p1887 sl"><span id="chapter62_verse3"></span> <strong><sup>3 </sup></strong>You will become a crown of beauty in the hand of Jehovah,</p>
<p class="p1887 sl">A royal turban in the palm of your God.</p>
<p id="p1888" class="p1888 sl"><span id="chapter62_verse4"></span> <strong><sup>4 </sup></strong>No more will you be called an abandoned woman,</p>
<p class="p1888 sl">And your land will no longer be called desolate.</p>
<p id="p1889" class="p1889 sz">But you will be called My Delight Is in Her,</p>
<p class="p1889 sz">And your land will be called the Married One.</p>
<p id="p1890" class="p1890 sz">For Jehovah will take delight in you,</p>
<p class="p1890 sz">And your land will be as one married.</p>
<p id="p1891" class="p1891 sl"><span id="chapter62_verse5"></span> <strong><sup>5 </sup></strong>For just as a young man marries a virgin,</p>
<p class="p1891 sl">Your sons will marry you.</p>
<p id="p1892" class="p1892 sz">With the rejoicing of a bridegroom over a bride,</p>
<p class="p1892 sz">Your God will rejoice over you.</p>
<p id="p1893" class="p1893 sl"><span id="chapter62_verse6"></span> <strong><sup>6 </sup></strong>Upon your walls, O Jerusalem, I have commissioned watchmen.</p>
<p id="p1894" class="p1894 sz">Continuously, all day long and all night long, they should not be silent.</p>
<p id="p1895" class="p1895 sz">You who make mention of Jehovah,</p>
<p class="p1895 sz">Do not rest,</p>
<p class="p1895 sz"><span id="chapter62_verse7"></span> <strong><sup>7 </sup></strong>And do not give him any rest until he firmly establishes Jerusalem,</p>
<p class="p1895 sz">Yes, until he makes her the praise of the earth.”</p>
<p id="p1896" class="p1896 sl"><span id="chapter62_verse8"></span> <strong><sup>8 </sup></strong>Jehovah has sworn an oath with his right hand, with his strong arm:</p>
<p id="p1897" class="p1897 sz">“I will no longer give your grain as food to your enemies,</p>
<p class="p1897 sz">Nor will foreigners drink your new wine, for which you have toiled.</p>
<p id="p1898" class="p1898 sl"><span id="chapter62_verse9"></span> <strong><sup>9 </sup></strong>But those gathering it will eat it and they will praise Jehovah;</p>
<p class="p1898 sl">And those collecting it will drink it in my holy courtyards.”</p>
<p id="p1899" class="p1899 sl"><span id="chapter62_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10 </sup></strong>Pass through, pass through the gates.</p>
<p id="p1900" class="p1900 sz">Clear the way for the people.</p>
<p id="p1901" class="p1901 sz">Build up, build up the highway.</p>
<p id="p1902" class="p1902 sz">Rid it of stones.</p>
<p id="p1903" class="p1903 sz">Raise up a signal<span id="footnotesource507"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote507">*</a> for the peoples.</p>
<p id="p1904" class="p1904 sl"><span id="chapter62_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11 </sup></strong>Look! Jehovah has proclaimed to the ends of the earth:</p>
<p id="p1905" class="p1905 sz">“Say to the daughter of Zion,</p>
<p class="p1905 sz">‘Look! Your salvation is coming.</p>
<p id="p1906" class="p1906 sz">Look! His reward is with him,</p>
<p class="p1906 sz">And the wage he pays is before him.’”</p>
<p id="p1907" class="p1907 sl"><span id="chapter62_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12 </sup></strong>They will be called the holy people, those repurchased by Jehovah,</p>
<p class="p1907 sl"><span id="page1023"></span>And you will be called Sought After, a City Not Abandoned.</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote507"><p><a href="070_ISA-.1-split62.xhtml#footnotesource507">^ <span class="footnoteref">Isa. 62:10</span></a> Or “signal pole.”</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
