<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>Isaiah 9</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/docclass1.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
<p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">Isaiah</a>  <a href="biblechapternav23.xhtml">9</a> : <a href="bibleversenav23_9.xhtml">1 - 21</a></p>
<p id="p210" class="p210 sb"><span id="pos26156"></span><span id="chapter9"></span><span id="chapter9_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>9 </strong></span>However, the gloom will not be as when the land had distress, as in former times when the land of Zeb′u·lun and the land of Naph′ta·li were treated with contempt. But at a later time He will cause it to be honored—the way by the sea, in the region of the Jordan, Gal′i·lee of the nations.</p>
<p id="p211" class="p211 sl"><span id="page949"></span><span id="chapter9_verse2"></span> <strong><sup>2 </sup></strong>The people who were walking in the darkness</p>
<p class="p211 sl">Have seen a great light.</p>
<p id="p212" class="p212 sz">As for those dwelling in the land of deep shadow,</p>
<p class="p212 sz">Light has shone on them.</p>
<p id="p213" class="p213 sl"><span id="chapter9_verse3"></span> <strong><sup>3 </sup></strong>You have made the nation populous;</p>
<p class="p213 sl">You have made its rejoicing great.</p>
<p id="p214" class="p214 sz">They rejoice before you</p>
<p class="p214 sz">As people rejoice in the harvesttime,</p>
<p class="p214 sz">As those who joyfully divide up the spoil.</p>
<p id="p215" class="p215 sl"><span id="chapter9_verse4"></span> <strong><sup>4 </sup></strong>For you have shattered to pieces the yoke of their load,</p>
<p class="p215 sl">The rod on their shoulders, the staff of the taskmaster,</p>
<p class="p215 sl">As in the day of Mid′i·an.</p>
<p id="p216" class="p216 sl"><span id="chapter9_verse5"></span> <strong><sup>5 </sup></strong>Every boot that shakes the earth as it marches</p>
<p class="p216 sl">And every garment soaked in blood</p>
<p class="p216 sl">Will become fuel for the fire.</p>
<p id="p217" class="p217 sl"><span id="pos27071"></span><span id="chapter9_verse6"></span> <strong><sup>6 </sup></strong>For a child has been born to us,</p>
<p class="p217 sl">A son has been given to us;</p>
<p class="p217 sl">And the rulership<span id="footnotesource77"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote77">*</a> will rest on his shoulder.</p>
<p id="p218" class="p218 sz">His name will be called Wonderful Counselor, Mighty God, Eternal Father, Prince of Peace.</p>
<p id="p219" class="p219 sl"><span id="chapter9_verse7"></span> <strong><sup>7 </sup></strong>To the increase of his rulership<span id="footnotesource78"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote78">*</a></p>
<p class="p219 sl">And to peace, there will be no end,</p>
<p class="p219 sl">On the throne of David and on his kingdom</p>
<p class="p219 sl">In order to establish it firmly and to sustain it</p>
<p class="p219 sl">Through justice and righteousness,</p>
<p class="p219 sl">From now on and forever.</p>
<p id="p220" class="p220 sz">The zeal of Jehovah of armies will do this.</p>
<p id="p221" class="p221 sl"><span id="pos27572"></span><span id="chapter9_verse8"></span> <strong><sup>8 </sup></strong>Jehovah sent a word against Jacob,</p>
<p class="p221 sl">And it has come against Israel.</p>
<p id="p222" class="p222 sl"><span id="chapter9_verse9"></span> <strong><sup>9 </sup></strong>And all the people will know it</p>
<p class="p222 sl">—E′phra·im and the inhabitants of Sa·mar′i·a—</p>
<p class="p222 sl">Who say in their haughtiness and in their insolence of heart:</p>
<p id="p223" class="p223 sl"><span id="chapter9_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10 </sup></strong>“Bricks have fallen,</p>
<p class="p223 sl">But we will build with hewn stone.</p>
<p id="p224" class="p224 sz">Sycamore trees have been cut down,</p>
<p class="p224 sz">But we will replace them with cedars.”</p>
<p id="p225" class="p225 sl"><span id="chapter9_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11 </sup></strong>Jehovah will raise up Re′zin’s adversaries against him</p>
<p class="p225 sl">And will stir his enemies to action,</p>
<p class="p225 sl"><span id="chapter9_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12 </sup></strong>Syria from the east and the Phi·lis′tines from the west,<span id="footnotesource79"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote79">*</a></p>
<p class="p225 sl">They will devour Israel with open mouths.</p>
<p id="p226" class="p226 sz">In view of all this, his anger has not turned back,</p>
<p class="p226 sz">But his hand is still stretched out to strike.</p>
<p id="p227" class="p227 sl"><span id="chapter9_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13 </sup></strong>For the people have not returned to the One who strikes them;</p>
<p class="p227 sl">They have not sought Jehovah of armies.</p>
<p id="p228" class="p228 sl"><span id="chapter9_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14 </sup></strong>Jehovah will cut off from Israel</p>
<p class="p228 sl">Head and tail, shoot and rush,<span id="footnotesource80"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote80">*</a> in one day.</p>
<p id="p229" class="p229 sl"><span id="chapter9_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15 </sup></strong>The elder and highly respected one is the head,</p>
<p class="p229 sl">And the prophet giving false instruction is the tail.</p>
<p id="p230" class="p230 sl"><span id="chapter9_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16 </sup></strong>Those leading this people are causing them to wander,</p>
<p class="p230 sl">And those who are being led are confused.</p>
<p id="p231" class="p231 sl"><span id="chapter9_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17 </sup></strong>That is why Jehovah will not rejoice over their young men,</p>
<p class="p231 sl"><span id="page950"></span>And he will have no mercy on their fatherless children<span id="footnotesource81"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote81">*</a> and their widows</p>
<p class="p231 sl">Because all of them are apostates and evildoers</p>
<p class="p231 sl">And every mouth is speaking senselessness.</p>
<p id="p232" class="p232 sz">In view of all this, his anger has not turned back,</p>
<p class="p232 sz">But his hand is still stretched out to strike.</p>
<p id="p233" class="p233 sl"><span id="chapter9_verse18"></span><strong><sup>18 </sup></strong>For wickedness burns like a fire,</p>
<p class="p233 sl">Consuming thornbushes and weeds.</p>
<p id="p234" class="p234 sz">It will set fire to the thickets of the forest,</p>
<p class="p234 sz">And they will go up in clouds of smoke.</p>
<p id="p235" class="p235 sl"><span id="chapter9_verse19"></span><strong><sup>19 </sup></strong>In the fury of Jehovah of armies</p>
<p class="p235 sl">The land has been set on fire,</p>
<p class="p235 sl">And the people will become fuel for the fire.</p>
<p id="p236" class="p236 sz">No one will spare even his brother.</p>
<p id="p237" class="p237 sl"><span id="chapter9_verse20"></span><strong><sup>20 </sup></strong>One will cut down on the right</p>
<p class="p237 sl">But still be hungry;</p>
<p class="p237 sl">And one will eat on the left</p>
<p class="p237 sl">But will not be satisfied.</p>
<p id="p238" class="p238 sz">Each will devour the flesh of his own arm,</p>
<p class="p238 sz"><span id="chapter9_verse21"></span><strong><sup>21 </sup></strong>Ma·nas′seh will devour E′phra·im,</p>
<p class="p238 sz">And E′phra·im Ma·nas′seh.</p>
<p id="p239" class="p239 sz">Together they will be against Judah.</p>
<p id="p240" class="p240 sz">In view of all this, his anger has not turned back,</p>
<p class="p240 sz">But his hand is still stretched out to strike.</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote77"><p><a href="070_ISA-.1-split9.xhtml#footnotesource77">^ <span class="footnoteref">Isa. 9:6</span></a> Or “government; princely rule.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote78"><p><a href="070_ISA-.1-split9.xhtml#footnotesource78">^ <span class="footnoteref">Isa. 9:7</span></a> Or “government; princely rule.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote79"><p><a href="070_ISA-.1-split9.xhtml#footnotesource79">^ <span class="footnoteref">Isa. 9:12</span></a> Lit., “from behind.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote80"><p><a href="070_ISA-.1-split9.xhtml#footnotesource80">^ <span class="footnoteref">Isa. 9:14</span></a> Or possibly, “palm branch and reed.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote81"><p><a href="070_ISA-.1-split9.xhtml#footnotesource81">^ <span class="footnoteref">Isa. 9:17</span></a> Or “their orphans.”</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
