<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>Jeremiah 21</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/docclass1.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
<p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">Jeremiah</a>  <a href="biblechapternav24.xhtml">21</a> : <a href="bibleversenav24_21.xhtml">1 - 14</a></p>
<p id="p739" class="p739 sb"><span id="pos84970"></span><span id="chapter21"></span><span id="chapter21_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>21 </strong></span>Jeremiah received the word from Jehovah when King Zed·e·ki′ah sent to him Pash′hur son of Mal·chi′jah and Zeph·a·ni′ah son of Ma·a·sei′ah, the priest, requesting: <span id="chapter21_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2 </sup></strong>“Please inquire of Jehovah in our behalf, because King Neb·u·chad·nez′zar<span id="footnotesource180"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote180">*</a> of Babylon is waging war against us. Perhaps Jehovah will perform one of his wonderful works in our behalf, so that he will withdraw from us.”</p>
<p id="p740" class="p740 sb"><span id="chapter21_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3 </sup></strong>Jeremiah said to them: “This is what you should say to Zed·e·ki′ah, <span id="chapter21_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4 </sup></strong>‘This is what Jehovah the God of Israel says: “Here I am turning around against you<span id="footnotesource181"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote181">*</a> the weapons of war that are in your own hands, with which you are fighting the king of Babylon and the Chal·de′ans who are outside the wall besieging you. And I will gather them into the middle of this city. <span id="chapter21_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5 </sup></strong>And I myself will fight against you with an outstretched hand and a mighty arm, with anger and wrath and great indignation. <span id="chapter21_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6 </sup></strong>I will strike the inhabitants of this city, both man and beast. By a great pestilence<span id="footnotesource182"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote182">*</a> they will die.”’</p>
<p id="p741" class="p741 sb"><span id="chapter21_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7 </sup></strong>“‘“And after that,” declares Jehovah, “I will give King Zed·e·ki′ah of Judah and his servants and the people of this city—those who survive the pestilence, the sword, and the famine—into the hand of King Neb·u·chad·nez′zar<span id="footnotesource183"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote183">*</a> of Babylon, into the hand of their enemies, and into the hand of those who are seeking to take their life.<span id="footnotesource184"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote184">*</a> He will strike them down with the sword. He will not feel sorry for them, nor will he show compassion or have any mercy.”’</p>
<p id="p742" class="p742 sb"><span id="pos86434"></span><span id="chapter21_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8 </sup></strong>“And to this people you should say, ‘This is what Jehovah says: “Here I am putting before you the way of life and the <span id="page1066"></span>way of death. <span id="chapter21_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9 </sup></strong>Those who remain in this city will die by the sword, by famine, and by pestilence. But whoever goes out and surrenders to the Chal·de′ans who are besieging you will keep living, and he will have his life<span id="footnotesource185"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote185">*</a> as a spoil.”’<span id="footnotesource186"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote186">*</a></p>
<p id="p743" class="p743 sb"><span id="chapter21_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10 </sup></strong>“‘“For I have set my face against this city for calamity and not for good,” declares Jehovah. “It will be given into the hand of the king of Babylon, and he will burn it with fire.”</p>
<p id="p744" class="p744 sb"><span id="chapter21_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11 </sup></strong>“‘To the household of the king of Judah: Hear the word of Jehovah. <span id="chapter21_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12 </sup></strong>O house of David, this is what Jehovah says:</p>
<p id="p745" class="p745 sz">“Uphold justice every morning,</p>
<p class="p745 sz">And rescue the one being robbed from the hand of the defrauder,</p>
<p class="p745 sz">So that my wrath does not blaze like a fire</p>
<p class="p745 sz">And burn with no one to extinguish it</p>
<p class="p745 sz">Because of your evil deeds.”’</p>
<p id="p746" class="p746 sl"><span id="chapter21_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13 </sup></strong>‘Here I am against you, O inhabitant of the valley,<span id="footnotesource187"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote187">*</a></p>
<p class="p746 sl">O rock of the level land,’ declares Jehovah.</p>
<p id="p747" class="p747 sz">‘As for you who say: “Who will come down against us?</p>
<p id="p748" class="p748 sz">And who will invade our dwellings?”</p>
<p id="p749" class="p749 sl"><span id="chapter21_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14 </sup></strong>I will hold an accounting against you</p>
<p class="p749 sl">As your deeds deserve,’ declares Jehovah.</p>
<p id="p750" class="p750 sz">‘And I will set her forest ablaze,</p>
<p class="p750 sz">And it will consume all the things around her.’”</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote180"><p><a href="072_JER-.1-split21.xhtml#footnotesource180">^ <span class="footnoteref">Jer. 21:2</span></a> Lit., “Nebuchadrezzar,” a variant spelling.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote181"><p><a href="072_JER-.1-split21.xhtml#footnotesource181">^ <span class="footnoteref">Jer. 21:4</span></a> Or “turning in reverse.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote182"><p><a href="072_JER-.1-split21.xhtml#footnotesource182">^ <span class="footnoteref">Jer. 21:6</span></a> Or “disease.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote183"><p><a href="072_JER-.1-split21.xhtml#footnotesource183">^ <span class="footnoteref">Jer. 21:7</span></a> Lit., “Nebuchadrezzar,” a variant spelling.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote184"><p><a href="072_JER-.1-split21.xhtml#footnotesource184">^ <span class="footnoteref">Jer. 21:7</span></a> Or “seeking their soul.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote185"><p><a href="072_JER-.1-split21.xhtml#footnotesource185">^ <span class="footnoteref">Jer. 21:9</span></a> Or “soul.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote186"><p><a href="072_JER-.1-split21.xhtml#footnotesource186">^ <span class="footnoteref">Jer. 21:9</span></a> Or “will escape with his life.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote187"><p><a href="072_JER-.1-split21.xhtml#footnotesource187">^ <span class="footnoteref">Jer. 21:13</span></a> Or “low plain.”</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
