<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>Jeremiah 41</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/docclass1.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
<p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">Jeremiah</a>  <a href="biblechapternav24.xhtml">41</a> : <a href="bibleversenav24_41.xhtml">1 - 18</a></p>
<p id="p1097" class="p1097 sb"><span id="page1097"></span><span id="pos177313"></span><span id="chapter41"></span><span id="chapter41_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>41 </strong></span>In the seventh month Ish′ma·el son of Neth·a·ni′ah son of E·lish′a·ma, who was of the royal line<span id="footnotesource363"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote363">*</a> and one of the principal men of the king, came with ten other men to Ged·a·li′ah the son of A·hi′kam at Miz′pah. As they were eating a meal together in Miz′pah, <span id="chapter41_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2 </sup></strong>Ish′ma·el the son of Neth·a·ni′ah and the ten men who were with him rose up and struck down Ged·a·li′ah the son of A·hi′kam the son of Sha′phan with the sword. So he put to death the one whom the king of Babylon had appointed over the land. <span id="chapter41_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3 </sup></strong>Ish′ma·el also struck down all the Jews who were with Ged·a·li′ah in Miz′pah, as well as the Chal·de′an soldiers who were there.</p>
<p id="p1098" class="p1098 sb"><span id="chapter41_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4 </sup></strong>On the second day after Ged·a·li′ah had been put to death, before anyone knew about it, <span id="chapter41_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5 </sup></strong>there came 80 men from She′chem, from Shi′loh, and from Sa·mar′i·a. Their beards were shaved off, their garments were ripped apart, they had cut themselves, and they had grain offerings and frankincense in their hand to bring to the house of Jehovah. <span id="chapter41_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6 </sup></strong>So Ish′ma·el the son of Neth·a·ni′ah went out from Miz′pah to meet them, weeping as he walked along. When he encountered them, he said to them: “Come to Ged·a·li′ah the son of A·hi′kam.” <span id="chapter41_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7 </sup></strong>But when they came into the city, Ish′ma·el the son of Neth·a·ni′ah and his men slaughtered them and threw them into the cistern.</p>
<p id="p1099" class="p1099 sb"><span id="chapter41_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8 </sup></strong>But there were ten men among them who said to Ish′ma·el: “Do not put us to death, for we have hidden stores of wheat, barley, oil, and honey in the field.” So he refrained from putting them to death along with their brothers. <span id="chapter41_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9 </sup></strong>Now Ish′ma·el threw all the carcasses of the men he had killed into a great cistern, the one that King A′sa had made because of King Ba′a·sha of Israel. This was the cistern that Ish′ma·el the son of Neth·a·ni′ah filled with the slain men.</p>
<p id="p1100" class="p1100 sb"><span id="chapter41_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10 </sup></strong>Ish′ma·el took captive all the rest of the people in Miz′pah, including the daughters of the king and all the people left in Miz′pah, whom Neb·u′zar·ad′an the chief of the guard had put in the custody of Ged·a·li′ah the son of A·hi′kam. Ish′ma·el the son of Neth·a·ni′ah took them captive and went off to cross over to the Am′mon·ites.</p>
<p id="p1101" class="p1101 sb"><span id="pos179455"></span><span id="chapter41_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11 </sup></strong>When Jo·ha′nan the son of Ka·re′ah and all the army chiefs who were with him heard about all the evil that Ish′ma·el the son of Neth·a·ni′ah had done, <span id="chapter41_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12 </sup></strong>they took all the men and went off to fight against Ish′ma·el the son of Neth·a·ni′ah, and they found him by the great waters<span id="footnotesource364"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote364">*</a> in Gib′e·on.</p>
<p id="p1102" class="p1102 sb"><span id="chapter41_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13 </sup></strong>All the people who were with Ish′ma·el rejoiced when they saw Jo·ha′nan the son of Ka·re′ah and all the army chiefs with him. <span id="chapter41_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14 </sup></strong>Then all the people whom Ish′ma·el had taken captive from Miz′pah turned around and went back with Jo·ha′nan the son of Ka·re′ah. <span id="chapter41_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15 </sup></strong>But Ish′ma·el the son of Neth·a·ni′ah and eight of his men escaped from Jo·ha′nan and went to the Am′mon·ites.</p>
<p id="p1103" class="p1103 sb"><span id="chapter41_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16 </sup></strong>Jo·ha′nan the son of Ka·re′ah and all the army chiefs who were with him took with them the rest of the people from Miz′pah, those whom they had rescued from Ish′ma·el the son of Neth·a·ni′ah after he had struck down Ged·a·li′ah the son of A·hi′kam. They brought the men, the soldiers, the women, the children, and the court officials back from <span id="page1098"></span>Gib′e·on. <span id="chapter41_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17 </sup></strong>So they went and stayed in the lodging place of Chim′ham next to Beth′le·hem, intending to go on into Egypt <span id="chapter41_verse18"></span><strong><sup>18 </sup></strong>because of the Chal·de′ans. For they had become afraid of them, since Ish′ma·el the son of Neth·a·ni′ah had struck down Ged·a·li′ah the son of A·hi′kam, whom the king of Babylon had appointed over the land.</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote363"><p><a href="072_JER-.1-split41.xhtml#footnotesource363">^ <span class="footnoteref">Jer. 41:1</span></a> Lit., “the seed of the kingdom.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote364"><p><a href="072_JER-.1-split41.xhtml#footnotesource364">^ <span class="footnoteref">Jer. 41:12</span></a> Or possibly, “great pool.”</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
