<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>Jeremiah 31</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/docclass1.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
<p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">Jeremiah</a>  <a href="biblechapternav24.xhtml">31</a> : <a href="bibleversenav24_31.xhtml">1 - 40</a></p>
<p id="p948" class="p948 sb"><span id="pos128403"></span><span id="chapter31"></span><span id="chapter31_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>31 </strong></span>“At that time,” declares Jehovah, “I will become God to all the families of Israel, and they will become my people.”</p>
<p id="p949" class="p949 sl"><span id="chapter31_verse2"></span> <strong><sup>2 </sup></strong>This is what Jehovah says:</p>
<p id="p950" class="p950 sz">“The people who survived the sword found favor in the wilderness</p>
<p class="p950 sz">When Israel was walking to his resting-place.”</p>
<p id="p951" class="p951 sl"><span id="chapter31_verse3"></span> <strong><sup>3 </sup></strong>From far away Jehovah appeared to me and said:</p>
<p id="p952" class="p952 sz">“I have loved you with an everlasting love.</p>
<p id="p953" class="p953 sz">That is why I have drawn you to me with loyal love.<span id="footnotesource260"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote260">*</a></p>
<p id="p954" class="p954 sl"><span id="chapter31_verse4"></span> <strong><sup>4 </sup></strong>Yet again I will rebuild you and you will be rebuilt.</p>
<p id="p955" class="p955 sz"><span id="page1081"></span>O virgin of Israel, you will again take up your tambourines</p>
<p class="p955 sz">And go forth dancing joyfully.<span id="footnotesource261"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote261">*</a></p>
<p id="p956" class="p956 sl"><span id="chapter31_verse5"></span> <strong><sup>5 </sup></strong>You will again plant vineyards in the mountains of Sa·mar′i·a;</p>
<p class="p956 sl">The planters will plant and enjoy their fruit.</p>
<p id="p957" class="p957 sl"><span id="chapter31_verse6"></span> <strong><sup>6 </sup></strong>For the day will come when the watchmen in the mountains of E′phra·im will call out:</p>
<p id="p958" class="p958 sz">‘Rise up, let us go up to Zion, to Jehovah our God.’”</p>
<p id="p959" class="p959 sl"><span id="chapter31_verse7"></span> <strong><sup>7 </sup></strong>For this is what Jehovah says:</p>
<p id="p960" class="p960 sz">“Cry out to Jacob with rejoicing.</p>
<p id="p961" class="p961 sz">Shout for joy because you are over the nations.</p>
<p id="p962" class="p962 sz">Proclaim it; offer praise and say,</p>
<p class="p962 sz">‘O Jehovah, save your people, the remnant of Israel.’</p>
<p id="p963" class="p963 sl"><span id="chapter31_verse8"></span> <strong><sup>8 </sup></strong>I am bringing them back from the land of the north.</p>
<p id="p964" class="p964 sz">I will gather them together from the remotest parts of the earth.</p>
<p id="p965" class="p965 sz">Among them will be the blind and the lame,</p>
<p class="p965 sz">The pregnant woman and the one giving birth, all together.</p>
<p id="p966" class="p966 sz">As a great congregation they will return here.</p>
<p id="p967" class="p967 sl"><span id="chapter31_verse9"></span> <strong><sup>9 </sup></strong>They will come weeping.</p>
<p id="p968" class="p968 sz">I will lead them as they beg for favor.</p>
<p id="p969" class="p969 sz">I will guide them to streams<span id="footnotesource262"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote262">*</a> of water,</p>
<p class="p969 sz">On a level path that will not make them stumble.</p>
<p id="p970" class="p970 sz">For I am a Father to Israel, and E′phra·im is my firstborn.”</p>
<p id="p971" class="p971 sl"><span id="chapter31_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10 </sup></strong>Hear the word of Jehovah, you nations,</p>
<p class="p971 sl">And proclaim it among the islands far away:</p>
<p id="p972" class="p972 sz">“The One who scattered Israel will gather him together.</p>
<p id="p973" class="p973 sz">He will watch over him as a shepherd does his flock.</p>
<p id="p974" class="p974 sl"><span id="chapter31_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11 </sup></strong>For Jehovah will redeem Jacob</p>
<p class="p974 sl">And rescue<span id="footnotesource263"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote263">*</a> him out of the hand of the one stronger than he is.</p>
<p id="p975" class="p975 sl"><span id="chapter31_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12 </sup></strong>They will come and shout joyfully on the height of Zion</p>
<p class="p975 sl">And become radiant over the goodness of<span id="footnotesource264"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote264">*</a> Jehovah,</p>
<p class="p975 sl">Over the grain and the new wine and the oil,</p>
<p class="p975 sl">And over the young of the flock and the herd.</p>
<p id="p976" class="p976 sz">They<span id="footnotesource265"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote265">*</a> will become like a well-watered garden,</p>
<p class="p976 sz">And they will never languish again.”</p>
<p id="p977" class="p977 sl"><span id="chapter31_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13 </sup></strong>“At that time the virgin will dance joyfully,</p>
<p class="p977 sl">Also the young men and the old men together.</p>
<p id="p978" class="p978 sz">I will change their mourning into exultation.</p>
<p id="p979" class="p979 sz">I will comfort them and give them joy instead of their grief.</p>
<p id="p980" class="p980 sl"><span id="chapter31_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14 </sup></strong>I will satisfy the priests<span id="footnotesource266"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote266">*</a> with plenty,<span id="footnotesource267"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote267">*</a></p>
<p class="p980 sl">And my people will be satisfied with my goodness,” declares Jehovah.</p>
<p id="p981" class="p981 sl"><span id="pos130946"></span><span id="chapter31_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15 </sup></strong>“This is what Jehovah says:</p>
<p id="p982" class="p982 sz">‘A voice is heard in Ra′mah, lamentation and bitter weeping:</p>
<p id="p983" class="p983 sz">Rachel is weeping over her sons.<span id="footnotesource268"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote268">*</a></p>
<p id="p984" class="p984 sz">She has refused to be comforted over her sons,</p>
<p class="p984 sz">Because they are no more.’”</p>
<p id="p985" class="p985 sl"><span id="page1082"></span><span id="chapter31_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16 </sup></strong>This is what Jehovah says:</p>
<p id="p986" class="p986 sz">“‘Hold back your voice from weeping and your eyes from tears,</p>
<p class="p986 sz">For there is a reward for your activity,’ declares Jehovah.</p>
<p id="p987" class="p987 sz">‘They will return from the land of the enemy.’</p>
<p id="p988" class="p988 sl"><span id="chapter31_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17 </sup></strong>‘And there is a hope for your future,’ declares Jehovah.</p>
<p id="p989" class="p989 sz">‘Your sons will return to their own territory.’”</p>
<p id="p990" class="p990 sl"><span id="chapter31_verse18"></span><strong><sup>18 </sup></strong>“I have surely heard E′phra·im’s moaning,</p>
<p class="p990 sl">‘You have corrected me, and I have been corrected,</p>
<p class="p990 sl">Like a calf that has not been trained.</p>
<p id="p991" class="p991 sz">Bring me back, and I will readily turn back,</p>
<p class="p991 sz">For you are Jehovah my God.</p>
<p id="p992" class="p992 sl"><span id="chapter31_verse19"></span><strong><sup>19 </sup></strong>For after my turning back I felt remorse;</p>
<p class="p992 sl">After I was made to understand I struck my thigh in grief.</p>
<p id="p993" class="p993 sz">I was ashamed and humiliated,</p>
<p class="p993 sz">For I bore the reproach of my youth.’”</p>
<p id="p994" class="p994 sl"><span id="chapter31_verse20"></span><strong><sup>20 </sup></strong>“Is E′phra·im not a precious son to me, a beloved child?</p>
<p id="p995" class="p995 sz">For as often as I speak against him, I do remember him still.</p>
<p id="p996" class="p996 sz">That is why my emotions<span id="footnotesource269"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote269">*</a> are stirred for him.</p>
<p id="p997" class="p997 sz">And I will surely have pity on him,” declares Jehovah.</p>
<p id="p998" class="p998 sl"><span id="chapter31_verse21"></span><strong><sup>21 </sup></strong>“Set up road markers for yourself,</p>
<p class="p998 sl">And put up signposts.</p>
<p id="p999" class="p999 sz">Pay attention to the highway, the way that you have to go.</p>
<p id="p1000" class="p1000 sz">Return, O virgin of Israel, return to these cities of yours.</p>
<p id="p1001" class="p1001 sl"><span id="chapter31_verse22"></span><strong><sup>22 </sup></strong>How long will you waver, O unfaithful daughter?</p>
<p id="p1002" class="p1002 sz">For Jehovah has created something new in the earth:</p>
<p id="p1003" class="p1003 sz">A woman will eagerly pursue a man.”</p>
<p id="p1004" class="p1004 sb"><span id="chapter31_verse23"></span><strong><sup>23 </sup></strong>This is what Jehovah of armies, the God of Israel, says: “They will again say these words in the land of Judah and in its cities when I gather back their captives: ‘May Jehovah bless you, O righteous dwelling place, O holy mountain.’ <span id="chapter31_verse24"></span><strong><sup>24 </sup></strong>And in it Judah and all its cities will dwell all together, farmers and those who lead the flocks. <span id="chapter31_verse25"></span><strong><sup>25 </sup></strong>For I will satisfy the weary one<span id="footnotesource270"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote270">*</a> and fill each one<span id="footnotesource271"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote271">*</a> who is languishing.”</p>
<p id="p1005" class="p1005 sb"><span id="chapter31_verse26"></span><strong><sup>26 </sup></strong>At this I awoke and opened my eyes, and my sleep had been pleasurable to me.</p>
<p id="p1006" class="p1006 sb"><span id="chapter31_verse27"></span><strong><sup>27 </sup></strong>“Look! The days are coming,” declares Jehovah, “when I will sow the house of Israel and the house of Judah with the seed<span id="footnotesource272"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote272">*</a> of man and with the seed of livestock.”</p>
<p id="p1007" class="p1007 sb"><span id="chapter31_verse28"></span><strong><sup>28 </sup></strong>“And just as I watched over them to uproot, to pull down, to tear down, to destroy, and to do harm, so I will watch over them to build up and to plant,” declares Jehovah. <span id="chapter31_verse29"></span><strong><sup>29 </sup></strong>“In those days they will no longer say, ‘The fathers ate sour grapes, but the teeth of the sons were set on edge.’<span id="footnotesource273"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote273">*</a> <span id="chapter31_verse30"></span><strong><sup>30 </sup></strong>But then each one will die for his own error. Any man eating sour grapes will have his own teeth set on edge.”</p>
<p id="p1008" class="p1008 sb"><span id="pos133589"></span><span id="chapter31_verse31"></span><strong><sup>31 </sup></strong>“Look! The days are coming,” declares Jehovah, “when I will make with the house of Israel and with the house of Judah a new covenant. <span id="chapter31_verse32"></span><strong><sup>32 </sup></strong>It will not be like the covenant that I made with their forefathers on the day I took hold of their hand to lead them out of the land of Egypt, <span id="page1083"></span>‘my covenant that they broke, although I was their true master,’<span id="footnotesource274"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote274">*</a> declares Jehovah.”</p>
<p id="p1009" class="p1009 sb"><span id="chapter31_verse33"></span><strong><sup>33 </sup></strong>“For this is the covenant that I will make with the house of Israel after those days,” declares Jehovah. “I will put my law within them, and in their heart I will write it. And I will become their God, and they will become my people.”</p>
<p id="p1010" class="p1010 sb"><span id="chapter31_verse34"></span><strong><sup>34 </sup></strong>“And they will no longer teach each one his neighbor and each one his brother, saying, ‘Know Jehovah!’ for they will all know me, from the least to the greatest of them,” declares Jehovah. “For I will forgive their error, and I will no longer remember their sin.”</p>
<p id="p1011" class="p1011 sl"><span id="chapter31_verse35"></span><strong><sup>35 </sup></strong>This is what Jehovah says,</p>
<p class="p1011 sl">Who gives the sun for light by day,</p>
<p class="p1011 sl">The laws<span id="footnotesource275"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote275">*</a> of the moon and the stars for light by night,</p>
<p class="p1011 sl">Who stirs up the sea and makes its waves boisterous,</p>
<p class="p1011 sl">Whose name is Jehovah of armies:</p>
<p id="p1012" class="p1012 sl"><span id="chapter31_verse36"></span><strong><sup>36 </sup></strong>“‘If these regulations should ever fail,’ declares Jehovah,</p>
<p class="p1012 sl">‘Only then would the offspring of Israel cease as a nation before me always.’”</p>
<p id="p1013" class="p1013 sb"><span id="chapter31_verse37"></span><strong><sup>37 </sup></strong>This is what Jehovah says: “‘If the heavens above could be measured and the foundations of the earth below could be explored, only then could I reject all the offspring of Israel for all they have done,’ declares Jehovah.”</p>
<p id="p1014" class="p1014 sb"><span id="chapter31_verse38"></span><strong><sup>38 </sup></strong>“Look! The days are coming,” declares Jehovah, “when the city will be built to Jehovah from the Tower of Ha·nan′el to the Corner Gate. <span id="chapter31_verse39"></span><strong><sup>39 </sup></strong>And the measuring line will go out straight ahead to the hill of Ga′reb, and it will turn toward Go′ah. <span id="chapter31_verse40"></span><strong><sup>40 </sup></strong>And all the valley<span id="footnotesource276"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote276">*</a> of the carcasses and of ashes<span id="footnotesource277"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote277">*</a> and all the terraces as far as the Kid′ron Valley, clear to the corner of the Horse Gate toward the east, will be something holy to Jehovah. It will never again be uprooted or torn down.”</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote260"><p><a href="072_JER-.1-split31.xhtml#footnotesource260">^ <span class="footnoteref">Jer. 31:3</span></a> Or “have continued to show loyal love to you.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote261"><p><a href="072_JER-.1-split31.xhtml#footnotesource261">^ <span class="footnoteref">Jer. 31:4</span></a> Or “go forth in the dance of those who are laughing.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote262"><p><a href="072_JER-.1-split31.xhtml#footnotesource262">^ <span class="footnoteref">Jer. 31:9</span></a> Or “wadis.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote263"><p><a href="072_JER-.1-split31.xhtml#footnotesource263">^ <span class="footnoteref">Jer. 31:11</span></a> Or “reclaim.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote264"><p><a href="072_JER-.1-split31.xhtml#footnotesource264">^ <span class="footnoteref">Jer. 31:12</span></a> Or “the good things from.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote265"><p><a href="072_JER-.1-split31.xhtml#footnotesource265">^ <span class="footnoteref">Jer. 31:12</span></a> Or “Their soul.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote266"><p><a href="072_JER-.1-split31.xhtml#footnotesource266">^ <span class="footnoteref">Jer. 31:14</span></a> Or “the soul of the priests.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote267"><p><a href="072_JER-.1-split31.xhtml#footnotesource267">^ <span class="footnoteref">Jer. 31:14</span></a> Lit., “fatness.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote268"><p><a href="072_JER-.1-split31.xhtml#footnotesource268">^ <span class="footnoteref">Jer. 31:15</span></a> Or “children.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote269"><p><a href="072_JER-.1-split31.xhtml#footnotesource269">^ <span class="footnoteref">Jer. 31:20</span></a> Lit., “intestines.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote270"><p><a href="072_JER-.1-split31.xhtml#footnotesource270">^ <span class="footnoteref">Jer. 31:25</span></a> Or “soul.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote271"><p><a href="072_JER-.1-split31.xhtml#footnotesource271">^ <span class="footnoteref">Jer. 31:25</span></a> Or “soul.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote272"><p><a href="072_JER-.1-split31.xhtml#footnotesource272">^ <span class="footnoteref">Jer. 31:27</span></a> Or “offspring.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote273"><p><a href="072_JER-.1-split31.xhtml#footnotesource273">^ <span class="footnoteref">Jer. 31:29</span></a> Lit., “got blunted.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote274"><p><a href="072_JER-.1-split31.xhtml#footnotesource274">^ <span class="footnoteref">Jer. 31:32</span></a> Or possibly, “their husband.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote275"><p><a href="072_JER-.1-split31.xhtml#footnotesource275">^ <span class="footnoteref">Jer. 31:35</span></a> Or “statutes.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote276"><p><a href="072_JER-.1-split31.xhtml#footnotesource276">^ <span class="footnoteref">Jer. 31:40</span></a> Or “low plain.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote277"><p><a href="072_JER-.1-split31.xhtml#footnotesource277">^ <span class="footnoteref">Jer. 31:40</span></a> Or “fatty ashes,” that is, ashes soaked with the fat of the sacrifices.</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
