<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>Jeremiah 5</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/docclass1.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
<p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">Jeremiah</a>  <a href="biblechapternav24.xhtml">5</a> : <a href="bibleversenav24_5.xhtml">1 - 31</a></p>
<p id="p181" class="p181 sl"><span id="pos18988"></span><span id="chapter5"></span><span id="chapter5_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>5 </strong></span>Roam the streets of Jerusalem.</p>
<p id="p182" class="p182 sz">Look around and take note.</p>
<p id="p183" class="p183 sz">Search her public squares to see</p>
<p class="p183 sz">Whether you can find a man who acts with justice,</p>
<p class="p183 sz">One who seeks to be faithful,</p>
<p class="p183 sz">And I will forgive her.</p>
<p id="p184" class="p184 sl"><span id="chapter5_verse2"></span> <strong><sup>2 </sup></strong>Even if they say: “As surely as Jehovah is alive!”</p>
<p id="p185" class="p185 sz">They would still swear to what is false.</p>
<p id="p186" class="p186 sl"><span id="chapter5_verse3"></span> <strong><sup>3 </sup></strong>O Jehovah, do your eyes not look for faithfulness?</p>
<p id="p187" class="p187 sz">You struck them, but it made no impact on them.<span id="footnotesource52"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote52">*</a></p>
<p id="p188" class="p188 sz">You exterminated them, but they refused to accept discipline.</p>
<p id="p189" class="p189 sz"><span id="page1040"></span>They made their faces harder than a rock,</p>
<p class="p189 sz">And they refused to turn around.</p>
<p id="p190" class="p190 sl"><span id="chapter5_verse4"></span> <strong><sup>4 </sup></strong>But I said to myself: “Surely these must be the lowly.</p>
<p id="p191" class="p191 sz">They act foolishly, for they do not know the way of Jehovah,</p>
<p class="p191 sz">The judgment of their God.</p>
<p id="p192" class="p192 sl"><span id="chapter5_verse5"></span> <strong><sup>5 </sup></strong>I will go to the prominent men and speak with them,</p>
<p class="p192 sl">For they must have taken note of the way of Jehovah,</p>
<p class="p192 sl">The judgment of their God.</p>
<p id="p193" class="p193 sz">But they had all broken the yoke</p>
<p class="p193 sz">And torn apart the restraints.”<span id="footnotesource53"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote53">*</a></p>
<p id="p194" class="p194 sl"><span id="chapter5_verse6"></span> <strong><sup>6 </sup></strong>That is why a lion of the forest attacks them,</p>
<p class="p194 sl">A wolf of the desert plains keeps ravaging them,</p>
<p class="p194 sl">A leopard lies awake at their cities.</p>
<p id="p195" class="p195 sz">Everyone going out from them is torn to pieces.</p>
<p id="p196" class="p196 sz">For their transgressions are many;</p>
<p class="p196 sz">Their acts of unfaithfulness are numerous.</p>
<p id="p197" class="p197 sl"><span id="chapter5_verse7"></span> <strong><sup>7 </sup></strong>How can I forgive you for this?</p>
<p id="p198" class="p198 sz">Your sons have abandoned me,</p>
<p class="p198 sz">And they swear by what is no God.</p>
<p id="p199" class="p199 sz">I satisfied their needs,</p>
<p class="p199 sz">But they kept committing adultery,</p>
<p class="p199 sz">And they flocked to the house of a prostitute.</p>
<p id="p200" class="p200 sl"><span id="chapter5_verse8"></span> <strong><sup>8 </sup></strong>They are like eager, lustful horses,</p>
<p class="p200 sl">Each neighing after another man’s wife.</p>
<p id="p201" class="p201 sl"><span id="chapter5_verse9"></span> <strong><sup>9 </sup></strong>“Should I not call them to account for these things?” declares Jehovah.</p>
<p id="p202" class="p202 sz">“Should I<span id="footnotesource54"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote54">*</a> not avenge myself on such a nation?”</p>
<p id="p203" class="p203 sl"><span id="chapter5_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10 </sup></strong>“Come up against her vineyard terraces and bring ruin,</p>
<p class="p203 sl">But do not make a complete extermination.</p>
<p id="p204" class="p204 sz">Take away her spreading shoots,</p>
<p class="p204 sz">For they do not belong to Jehovah.</p>
<p id="p205" class="p205 sl"><span id="chapter5_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11 </sup></strong>For the house of Israel and the house of Judah</p>
<p class="p205 sl">Have been utterly treacherous with me,” declares Jehovah.</p>
<p id="p206" class="p206 sl"><span id="chapter5_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12 </sup></strong>“They have denied Jehovah, and they keep saying,</p>
<p class="p206 sl">‘He will do nothing.<span id="footnotesource55"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote55">*</a></p>
<p id="p207" class="p207 sz">No calamity will come upon us;</p>
<p class="p207 sz">We will not see sword or famine.’</p>
<p id="p208" class="p208 sl"><span id="chapter5_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13 </sup></strong>The prophets are full of wind,</p>
<p class="p208 sl">And the word<span id="footnotesource56"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote56">*</a> is not in them.</p>
<p id="p209" class="p209 sz">Let this happen to them!”</p>
<p id="p210" class="p210 sl"><span id="pos21179"></span><span id="chapter5_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14 </sup></strong>Therefore this is what Jehovah, the God of armies, says:</p>
<p id="p211" class="p211 sz">“Because these men are saying this,</p>
<p class="p211 sz">Here I am making my words a fire in your mouth,</p>
<p class="p211 sz">And this people is the wood,</p>
<p class="p211 sz">And it will consume them.”</p>
<p id="p212" class="p212 sl"><span id="chapter5_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15 </sup></strong>“Here I am bringing in on you a nation from far away, O house of Israel,” declares Jehovah.</p>
<p id="p213" class="p213 sz">“It is an enduring nation.</p>
<p id="p214" class="p214 sz">It is an ancient nation,</p>
<p class="p214 sz">A nation whose language you do not know,</p>
<p class="p214 sz">And whose speech you cannot understand.</p>
<p id="p215" class="p215 sl"><span id="chapter5_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16 </sup></strong>Their quiver is like an open grave;</p>
<p class="p215 sl">All of them are warriors.</p>
<p id="p216" class="p216 sl"><span id="chapter5_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17 </sup></strong>They will devour your harvest and your bread.</p>
<p id="p217" class="p217 sz"><span id="page1041"></span>They will devour your sons and your daughters.</p>
<p id="p218" class="p218 sz">They will devour your flocks and your herds.</p>
<p id="p219" class="p219 sz">They will devour your vines and your fig trees.</p>
<p id="p220" class="p220 sz">They will destroy with the sword your fortified cities in which you trust.”</p>
<p id="p221" class="p221 sb"><span id="chapter5_verse18"></span><strong><sup>18 </sup></strong>“But even in those days,” declares Jehovah, “I will not carry out a complete extermination of you. <span id="chapter5_verse19"></span><strong><sup>19 </sup></strong>And when they ask, ‘Why has Jehovah our God done all these things to us?’ you should answer them, ‘Just as you abandoned me to serve a foreign god in your land, so you will serve foreigners in a land that is not yours.’”</p>
<p id="p222" class="p222 sl"><span id="pos22326"></span><span id="chapter5_verse20"></span><strong><sup>20 </sup></strong>Declare this in the house of Jacob,</p>
<p class="p222 sl">And proclaim it in Judah, saying:</p>
<p id="p223" class="p223 sl"><span id="chapter5_verse21"></span><strong><sup>21 </sup></strong>“Hear this, you foolish and senseless people:<span id="footnotesource57"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote57">*</a></p>
<p id="p224" class="p224 sz">They have eyes but cannot see;</p>
<p class="p224 sz">They have ears but cannot hear.</p>
<p id="p225" class="p225 sl"><span id="chapter5_verse22"></span><strong><sup>22 </sup></strong>‘Do you not fear me?’ declares Jehovah,</p>
<p class="p225 sl">‘Should you not tremble before me?</p>
<p id="p226" class="p226 sz">It is I who placed the sand as the boundary for the sea,</p>
<p class="p226 sz">A permanent regulation that it cannot pass over.</p>
<p id="p227" class="p227 sz">Although its waves toss, they cannot prevail;</p>
<p class="p227 sz">Although they roar, they still cannot pass beyond it.</p>
<p id="p228" class="p228 sl"><span id="chapter5_verse23"></span><strong><sup>23 </sup></strong>But this people has a stubborn and rebellious heart;</p>
<p class="p228 sl">They have turned aside and gone their own way.</p>
<p id="p229" class="p229 sl"><span id="chapter5_verse24"></span><strong><sup>24 </sup></strong>And they do not say in their heart:</p>
<p id="p230" class="p230 sz">“Let us now fear Jehovah our God,</p>
<p class="p230 sz">The One who gives the rain in its season,</p>
<p class="p230 sz">Both the autumn rain and the spring rain,</p>
<p class="p230 sz">The One who guards for us the appointed weeks of the harvest.”</p>
<p id="p231" class="p231 sl"><span id="chapter5_verse25"></span><strong><sup>25 </sup></strong>Your own errors have prevented these things from coming;</p>
<p class="p231 sl">Your own sins have deprived you of what is good.</p>
<p id="p232" class="p232 sl"><span id="chapter5_verse26"></span><strong><sup>26 </sup></strong>For among my people there are wicked men.</p>
<p id="p233" class="p233 sz">They keep peering, as when birdcatchers crouch down.</p>
<p id="p234" class="p234 sz">They set a deadly trap.</p>
<p id="p235" class="p235 sz">It is men whom they catch.</p>
<p id="p236" class="p236 sl"><span id="chapter5_verse27"></span><strong><sup>27 </sup></strong>Like a cage full of birds,</p>
<p class="p236 sl">So their houses are full of deception.</p>
<p id="p237" class="p237 sz">That is why they have become powerful and rich.</p>
<p id="p238" class="p238 sl"><span id="chapter5_verse28"></span><strong><sup>28 </sup></strong>They have grown fat and smooth;</p>
<p class="p238 sl">They overflow with evil.</p>
<p id="p239" class="p239 sz">They do not plead the legal case of the fatherless,</p>
<p class="p239 sz">That they may gain success;</p>
<p class="p239 sz">And they deny justice to the poor.’”</p>
<p id="p240" class="p240 sl"><span id="chapter5_verse29"></span><strong><sup>29 </sup></strong>“Should I not call them to account for these things?” declares Jehovah.</p>
<p id="p241" class="p241 sz">“Should I<span id="footnotesource58"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote58">*</a> not avenge myself on such a nation?</p>
<p id="p242" class="p242 sl"><span id="chapter5_verse30"></span><strong><sup>30 </sup></strong>Something appalling and horrible has occurred in the land:</p>
<p id="p243" class="p243 sl"><span id="chapter5_verse31"></span><strong><sup>31 </sup></strong>The prophets prophesy lies,</p>
<p class="p243 sl">And the priests dominate by their own authority.</p>
<p id="p244" class="p244 sz">And my own people love it that way.</p>
<p id="p245" class="p245 sz">But what will you do when the end comes?”</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote52"><p><a href="072_JER-.1-split5.xhtml#footnotesource52">^ <span class="footnoteref">Jer. 5:3</span></a> Lit., “they did not become weak.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote53"><p><a href="072_JER-.1-split5.xhtml#footnotesource53">^ <span class="footnoteref">Jer. 5:5</span></a> Lit., “bands.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote54"><p><a href="072_JER-.1-split5.xhtml#footnotesource54">^ <span class="footnoteref">Jer. 5:9</span></a> Or “my soul.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote55"><p><a href="072_JER-.1-split5.xhtml#footnotesource55">^ <span class="footnoteref">Jer. 5:12</span></a> Or possibly, “He does not exist.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote56"><p><a href="072_JER-.1-split5.xhtml#footnotesource56">^ <span class="footnoteref">Jer. 5:13</span></a> That is, God’s word.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote57"><p><a href="072_JER-.1-split5.xhtml#footnotesource57">^ <span class="footnoteref">Jer. 5:21</span></a> Lit., “you foolish people without heart.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote58"><p><a href="072_JER-.1-split5.xhtml#footnotesource58">^ <span class="footnoteref">Jer. 5:29</span></a> Or “my soul.”</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
