<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>Jeremiah 9</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/docclass1.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
<p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">Jeremiah</a>  <a href="biblechapternav24.xhtml">9</a> : <a href="bibleversenav24_9.xhtml">1 - 26</a></p>
<p id="p369" class="p369 sl"><span id="pos38640"></span><span id="chapter9"></span><span id="chapter9_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>9 </strong></span>O that my head were waters,</p>
<p class="p369 sl">My eyes a fountain of tears!</p>
<p id="p370" class="p370 sz">Then I would weep day and night</p>
<p class="p370 sz">For the slain ones of my people.</p>
<p id="p371" class="p371 sl"><span id="chapter9_verse2"></span> <strong><sup>2 </sup></strong>O that I had a traveler’s lodging place in the wilderness!</p>
<p id="p372" class="p372 sz">Then I would leave my people and go away from them,</p>
<p class="p372 sz">For they are all adulterers,</p>
<p class="p372 sz">A band of treacherous people.</p>
<p id="p373" class="p373 sl"><span id="pos38956"></span><span id="chapter9_verse3"></span> <strong><sup>3 </sup></strong>They bend their tongue like a bow;</p>
<p class="p373 sl">Falsehood, not faithfulness, prevails in the land.</p>
<p id="p374" class="p374 sz">“They advance from evil to evil,</p>
<p class="p374 sz">And they pay no attention to me,” declares Jehovah.</p>
<p id="p375" class="p375 sl"><span id="chapter9_verse4"></span> <strong><sup>4 </sup></strong>“Everyone, be on guard against your neighbor,</p>
<p class="p375 sl">And do not trust even your brother.</p>
<p id="p376" class="p376 sz">For every brother is a betrayer,</p>
<p class="p376 sz">And every neighbor is a slanderer.</p>
<p id="p377" class="p377 sl"><span id="chapter9_verse5"></span> <strong><sup>5 </sup></strong>Each one cheats his neighbor,</p>
<p class="p377 sl">And no one speaks truth.</p>
<p id="p378" class="p378 sz">They have taught their tongue to speak falsehood.</p>
<p id="p379" class="p379 sz">They wear themselves out doing what is wrong.</p>
<p id="p380" class="p380 sl"><span id="chapter9_verse6"></span> <strong><sup>6 </sup></strong>You are living in the midst of deception.</p>
<p id="p381" class="p381 sz">In their deception they refused to know me,” declares Jehovah.</p>
<p id="p382" class="p382 sl"><span id="chapter9_verse7"></span> <strong><sup>7 </sup></strong>Therefore this is what Jehovah of armies says:</p>
<p id="p383" class="p383 sz">“I will smelt them and test them,</p>
<p class="p383 sz">For what else can I do with the daughter of my people?</p>
<p id="p384" class="p384 sl"><span id="page1048"></span><span id="chapter9_verse8"></span> <strong><sup>8 </sup></strong>Their tongue is a deadly arrow that speaks deception.</p>
<p id="p385" class="p385 sz">With his mouth a person speaks of peace to his neighbor,</p>
<p class="p385 sz">But inside he lays an ambush.”</p>
<p id="p386" class="p386 sl"><span id="chapter9_verse9"></span> <strong><sup>9 </sup></strong>“Should I not call them to account for these things?” declares Jehovah.</p>
<p id="p387" class="p387 sz">“Should I<span id="footnotesource99"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote99">*</a> not avenge myself on such a nation?</p>
<p id="p388" class="p388 sl"><span id="chapter9_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10 </sup></strong>I will weep and lament over the mountains</p>
<p class="p388 sl">And take up a dirge<span id="footnotesource100"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote100">*</a> over the pastures of the wilderness,</p>
<p class="p388 sl">For they have been burned up so that no man passes through,</p>
<p class="p388 sl">And the sound of livestock is not heard.</p>
<p id="p389" class="p389 sz">The birds of heaven and the beasts have fled; they are gone.</p>
<p id="p390" class="p390 sl"><span id="chapter9_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11 </sup></strong>I will make Jerusalem piles of stones, the lair of jackals,</p>
<p class="p390 sl">And I will make the cities of Judah desolate, without an inhabitant.</p>
<p id="p391" class="p391 sl"><span id="chapter9_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12 </sup></strong>Who is wise enough to understand this?</p>
<p id="p392" class="p392 sz">To whom has the mouth of Jehovah spoken, that he may declare it?</p>
<p id="p393" class="p393 sz">Why has the land perished?</p>
<p id="p394" class="p394 sz">Why is it scorched like the wilderness,</p>
<p class="p394 sz">So that no one is passing through?”</p>
<p id="p395" class="p395 sb"><span id="chapter9_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13 </sup></strong>Jehovah replied: “Because of their rejecting my law<span id="footnotesource101"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote101">*</a> that I set before them, and because they have not followed it and obeyed my voice. <span id="chapter9_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14 </sup></strong>Instead, they stubbornly followed their own hearts, and they followed the Ba′al images, as their fathers had taught them to do. <span id="chapter9_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15 </sup></strong>Therefore this is what Jehovah of armies, the God of Israel, says, ‘Here I am making this people eat wormwood, and I will make them drink poisoned water. <span id="chapter9_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16 </sup></strong>I will scatter them among the nations that they and their fathers have not known, and I will send a sword after them until I will have exterminated them.’</p>
<p id="p396" class="p396 sl"><span id="pos41264"></span><span id="chapter9_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17 </sup></strong>This is what Jehovah of armies says,</p>
<p class="p396 sl">‘Behave with understanding.</p>
<p id="p397" class="p397 sz">Summon the women who sing dirges,<span id="footnotesource102"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote102">*</a></p>
<p class="p397 sz">And send for the skilled women to come,</p>
<p class="p397 sz"><span id="chapter9_verse18"></span><strong><sup>18 </sup></strong>So that they may hurry and raise a lamentation for us,</p>
<p class="p397 sz">So that our eyes may stream with tears</p>
<p class="p397 sz">And our eyelids trickle with water.</p>
<p id="p398" class="p398 sl"><span id="chapter9_verse19"></span><strong><sup>19 </sup></strong>For the sound of lamentation has been heard from Zion:</p>
<p id="p399" class="p399 sz">“How we have been devastated!</p>
<p id="p400" class="p400 sz">How great our shame is!</p>
<p id="p401" class="p401 sz">For we have left the land, and they have thrown down our homes.”</p>
<p id="p402" class="p402 sl"><span id="chapter9_verse20"></span><strong><sup>20 </sup></strong>You women, hear the word of Jehovah.</p>
<p id="p403" class="p403 sz">May your ear receive the word of his mouth.</p>
<p id="p404" class="p404 sz">Teach your daughters this lamentation,</p>
<p class="p404 sz">And teach one another this dirge.<span id="footnotesource103"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote103">*</a></p>
<p id="p405" class="p405 sl"><span id="chapter9_verse21"></span><strong><sup>21 </sup></strong>For death has come up through our windows;</p>
<p class="p405 sl">It has entered our fortified towers</p>
<p class="p405 sl">To take away the children from the streets</p>
<p class="p405 sl">And the young men from the public squares.’</p>
<p id="p406" class="p406 sl"><span id="chapter9_verse22"></span><strong><sup>22 </sup></strong>Say, ‘This is what Jehovah declares:</p>
<p id="p407" class="p407 sz"><span id="page1049"></span>“The dead bodies of people will fall like manure on the surface of the field,</p>
<p class="p407 sz">Like a row of newly cut grain after the reaper,</p>
<p class="p407 sz">With no one to gather them up.”’”</p>
<p id="p408" class="p408 sl"><span id="pos42318"></span><span id="chapter9_verse23"></span><strong><sup>23 </sup></strong>This is what Jehovah says:</p>
<p id="p409" class="p409 sz">“Let not the wise man boast about his wisdom;</p>
<p class="p409 sz">Let not the mighty man boast about his mightiness;</p>
<p class="p409 sz">And let not the rich man boast about his riches.”</p>
<p id="p410" class="p410 sl"><span id="chapter9_verse24"></span><strong><sup>24 </sup></strong>“But let the one boasting boast about this:</p>
<p id="p411" class="p411 sz">That he has insight and knowledge of me,</p>
<p class="p411 sz">That I am Jehovah, the One showing loyal love, justice, and righteousness in the earth,</p>
<p class="p411 sz">For in these things I take delight,” declares Jehovah.</p>
<p id="p412" class="p412 sb"><span id="chapter9_verse25"></span><strong><sup>25 </sup></strong>“Look! Days are coming,” declares Jehovah, “and I will hold an accounting with everyone circumcised and yet uncircumcised, <span id="chapter9_verse26"></span><strong><sup>26 </sup></strong>with Egypt and Judah and E′dom and the Am′mon·ites and Mo′ab and with all of those with hair clipped at the temples who are dwelling in the wilderness; for all the nations are uncircumcised, and all the house of Israel are uncircumcised in heart.”</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote99"><p><a href="072_JER-.1-split9.xhtml#footnotesource99">^ <span class="footnoteref">Jer. 9:9</span></a> Or “my soul.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote100"><p><a href="072_JER-.1-split9.xhtml#footnotesource100">^ <span class="footnoteref">Jer. 9:10</span></a> Or “song of mourning.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote101"><p><a href="072_JER-.1-split9.xhtml#footnotesource101">^ <span class="footnoteref">Jer. 9:13</span></a> Or “instruction.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote102"><p><a href="072_JER-.1-split9.xhtml#footnotesource102">^ <span class="footnoteref">Jer. 9:17</span></a> Or “songs of mourning.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote103"><p><a href="072_JER-.1-split9.xhtml#footnotesource103">^ <span class="footnoteref">Jer. 9:20</span></a> Or “song of mourning.”</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
