<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>Jeremiah 3</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/docclass1.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
<p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">Jeremiah</a>  <a href="biblechapternav24.xhtml">3</a> : <a href="bibleversenav24_3.xhtml">1 - 25</a></p>
<p id="p96" class="p96 sb"><span id="pos9179"></span><span id="chapter3"></span><span id="chapter3_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>3 </strong></span>People ask: “If a man sends his wife away and she leaves him and becomes another man’s, should he return to her anymore?”</p>
<p id="p97" class="p97 sz">Has that land not been utterly polluted?</p>
<p id="p98" class="p98 sz">“You have committed prostitution with many companions,</p>
<p class="p98 sz">And should you now return to me?” declares Jehovah.</p>
<p id="p99" class="p99 sl"><span id="chapter3_verse2"></span> <strong><sup>2 </sup></strong>“Raise your eyes to the bare hills and see.</p>
<p id="p100" class="p100 sz">Where have you not been raped?</p>
<p id="p101" class="p101 sz">You sat along the roadways for them,</p>
<p class="p101 sz">Like a nomad<span id="footnotesource25"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote25">*</a> in the wilderness.</p>
<p id="p102" class="p102 sz">You keep polluting the land</p>
<p class="p102 sz"><span id="page1036"></span>With your prostitution and your wickedness.</p>
<p id="p103" class="p103 sl"><span id="chapter3_verse3"></span> <strong><sup>3 </sup></strong>So showers of rain are withheld,</p>
<p class="p103 sl">And there is no rain in the spring.</p>
<p id="p104" class="p104 sz">You have the brazen look<span id="footnotesource26"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote26">*</a> of a wife who commits prostitution;</p>
<p class="p104 sz">You refuse to feel shame.</p>
<p id="p105" class="p105 sl"><span id="chapter3_verse4"></span> <strong><sup>4 </sup></strong>But now you call out to me,</p>
<p class="p105 sl">‘My Father, you are the companion of my youth!</p>
<p id="p106" class="p106 sl"><span id="chapter3_verse5"></span> <strong><sup>5 </sup></strong>Should one stay resentful forever,</p>
<p class="p106 sl">Or always hold a grudge?’</p>
<p id="p107" class="p107 sz">This is what you say,</p>
<p class="p107 sz">But you keep doing all the evil you are capable of doing.”</p>
<p id="p108" class="p108 sb"><span id="pos10110"></span><span id="chapter3_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6 </sup></strong>In the days of King Jo·si′ah, Jehovah said to me: “‘Have you seen what unfaithful Israel has done? She has gone up on every high mountain and underneath every luxuriant tree to commit prostitution. <span id="chapter3_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7 </sup></strong>Even after she did all these things, I kept telling her to return to me, but she did not return; and Judah kept watching her treacherous sister. <span id="chapter3_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8 </sup></strong>When I saw that, I sent unfaithful Israel away with a full certificate of divorce because of her adultery. But her treacherous sister Judah did not become afraid; she too went out and committed prostitution. <span id="chapter3_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9 </sup></strong>She took her prostitution lightly, and she kept polluting the land and committing adultery with stones and with trees. <span id="chapter3_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10 </sup></strong>Despite all this, her treacherous sister Judah did not return to me with all her heart, only in pretense,’ declares Jehovah.”</p>
<p id="p109" class="p109 sb"><span id="chapter3_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11 </sup></strong>Jehovah then said to me: “Unfaithful Israel has shown herself<span id="footnotesource27"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote27">*</a> to be more righteous than treacherous Judah. <span id="pos11053"></span><span id="chapter3_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12 </sup></strong>Go and proclaim these words to the north:</p>
<p id="p110" class="p110 sb">“‘“Return, O renegade Israel,” declares Jehovah.’ ‘“I will not look down angrily<span id="footnotesource28"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote28">*</a> on you, for I am loyal,” declares Jehovah.’ ‘“I will not stay resentful forever. <span id="chapter3_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13 </sup></strong>Only acknowledge your guilt, for you have rebelled against Jehovah your God. You continued scattering your favors<span id="footnotesource29"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote29">*</a> to strangers<span id="footnotesource30"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote30">*</a> under every luxuriant tree, but you would not obey my voice,” declares Jehovah.’”</p>
<p id="p111" class="p111 sb"><span id="chapter3_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14 </sup></strong>“Return, you renegade sons,” declares Jehovah. “For I have become your true master;<span id="footnotesource31"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote31">*</a> and I will take you, one from a city and two from a family, and I will bring you to Zion. <span id="chapter3_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15 </sup></strong>And I will give you shepherds after my own heart, and they will feed you with knowledge and insight. <span id="chapter3_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16 </sup></strong>You will become many and will bear fruit in the land in those days,” declares Jehovah. “No more will they say, ‘The ark of the covenant of Jehovah!’ It will not come up into the heart, nor will they remember it or miss it, and it will not be made again. <span id="chapter3_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17 </sup></strong>At that time they will call Jerusalem the throne of Jehovah; and all the nations will be brought together to the name of Jehovah at Jerusalem, and they will no longer stubbornly follow their own wicked heart.”</p>
<p id="p112" class="p112 sb"><span id="chapter3_verse18"></span><strong><sup>18 </sup></strong>“In those days they will walk together, the house of Judah alongside the house of Israel, and together they will come from the land of the north into the land that I gave to your forefathers as an inheritance. <span id="chapter3_verse19"></span><strong><sup>19 </sup></strong>And I thought, ‘How I placed you among the sons and gave you the desirable land, <span id="page1037"></span>the most beautiful inheritance among the nations!’<span id="footnotesource32"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote32">*</a> I also thought that you would call me, ‘My Father!’ and that you would not turn away from following me. <span id="chapter3_verse20"></span><strong><sup>20 </sup></strong>‘Truly as a wife treacherously leaves her husband,<span id="footnotesource33"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote33">*</a> so also you, O house of Israel, have dealt treacherously with me,’ declares Jehovah.”</p>
<p id="p113" class="p113 sl"><span id="chapter3_verse21"></span><strong><sup>21 </sup></strong>On the bare hills a sound is heard,</p>
<p class="p113 sl">The weeping and the pleading of the people of Israel,</p>
<p class="p113 sl">For they have distorted their way;</p>
<p class="p113 sl">They have forgotten Jehovah their God.</p>
<p id="p114" class="p114 sl"><span id="chapter3_verse22"></span><strong><sup>22 </sup></strong>“Return, you renegade sons.</p>
<p id="p115" class="p115 sz">I will heal your renegade condition.”</p>
<p id="p116" class="p116 sz">“Here we are! We have come to you,</p>
<p class="p116 sz">For you, O Jehovah, are our God.</p>
<p id="p117" class="p117 sl"><span id="chapter3_verse23"></span><strong><sup>23 </sup></strong>Truly the hills and the turmoil on the mountains are a delusion.</p>
<p id="p118" class="p118 sz">Truly in Jehovah our God is the salvation of Israel.</p>
<p id="p119" class="p119 sl"><span id="chapter3_verse24"></span><strong><sup>24 </sup></strong>But the shameful thing<span id="footnotesource34"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote34">*</a> has consumed the toil of our forefathers since our youth,</p>
<p class="p119 sl">Their flocks and their herds,</p>
<p class="p119 sl">Their sons and their daughters.</p>
<p id="p120" class="p120 sl"><span id="chapter3_verse25"></span><strong><sup>25 </sup></strong>Let us lie down in our shame,</p>
<p class="p120 sl">And let our disgrace cover us,</p>
<p class="p120 sl">For we have sinned against Jehovah our God,</p>
<p class="p120 sl">We and our fathers since our youth until this day,</p>
<p class="p120 sl">And we have not obeyed the voice of Jehovah our God.”</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote25"><p><a href="072_JER-.1-split3.xhtml#footnotesource25">^ <span class="footnoteref">Jer. 3:2</span></a> Lit., “an Ara­bian.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote26"><p><a href="072_JER-.1-split3.xhtml#footnotesource26">^ <span class="footnoteref">Jer. 3:3</span></a> Lit., “the forehead.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote27"><p><a href="072_JER-.1-split3.xhtml#footnotesource27">^ <span class="footnoteref">Jer. 3:11</span></a> Or “her soul.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote28"><p><a href="072_JER-.1-split3.xhtml#footnotesource28">^ <span class="footnoteref">Jer. 3:12</span></a> Lit., “make my face fall.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote29"><p><a href="072_JER-.1-split3.xhtml#footnotesource29">^ <span class="footnoteref">Jer. 3:13</span></a> Lit., “ways.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote30"><p><a href="072_JER-.1-split3.xhtml#footnotesource30">^ <span class="footnoteref">Jer. 3:13</span></a> Or “foreign gods.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote31"><p><a href="072_JER-.1-split3.xhtml#footnotesource31">^ <span class="footnoteref">Jer. 3:14</span></a> Or possibly, “your husband.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote32"><p><a href="072_JER-.1-split3.xhtml#footnotesource32">^ <span class="footnoteref">Jer. 3:19</span></a> Lit., “of the armies of the nations.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote33"><p><a href="072_JER-.1-split3.xhtml#footnotesource33">^ <span class="footnoteref">Jer. 3:20</span></a> Lit., “companion.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote34"><p><a href="072_JER-.1-split3.xhtml#footnotesource34">^ <span class="footnoteref">Jer. 3:24</span></a> Or “the shameful god.”</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
