<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>Jeremiah 49</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/docclass1.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
<p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">Jeremiah</a>  <a href="biblechapternav24.xhtml">49</a> : <a href="bibleversenav24_49.xhtml">1 - 39</a></p>
<p id="p1281" class="p1281 sl"><span id="pos207488"></span><span id="chapter49"></span><span id="chapter49_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>49 </strong></span>For the Am′mon·ites, this is what Jehovah says:</p>
<p id="p1282" class="p1282 sz">“Does Israel have no sons?</p>
<p id="p1283" class="p1283 sz">Does he have no heir?</p>
<p id="p1284" class="p1284 sz">Why has Mal′cam taken possession of Gad?</p>
<p id="p1285" class="p1285 sz">And why are his people living in Israel’s cities?”</p>
<p id="p1286" class="p1286 sl"><span id="chapter49_verse2"></span> <strong><sup>2 </sup></strong>“‘Therefore look! the days are coming,’ declares Jehovah,</p>
<p class="p1286 sl">‘When I will cause the alarm signal of war<span id="footnotesource423"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote423">*</a> to be heard against Rab′bah of the Am′mon·ites.</p>
<p id="p1287" class="p1287 sz">She will become a desolate mound,</p>
<p class="p1287 sz">And her dependent<span id="footnotesource424"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote424">*</a> towns will be set on fire.’</p>
<p id="p1288" class="p1288 sz">‘And Israel will take possession of those who dispossessed him,’ says Jehovah.</p>
<p id="p1289" class="p1289 sl"><span id="chapter49_verse3"></span> <strong><sup>3 </sup></strong>‘Wail, O Hesh′bon, for A′i has been destroyed!</p>
<p id="p1290" class="p1290 sz">Cry out, O dependent towns of Rab′bah.</p>
<p id="p1291" class="p1291 sz">Put on sackcloth.</p>
<p id="p1292" class="p1292 sz">Wail and rove about among the stone pens,<span id="footnotesource425"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote425">*</a></p>
<p class="p1292 sz">For Mal′cam will go into exile,</p>
<p class="p1292 sz">Together with his priests and his princes.</p>
<p id="p1293" class="p1293 sl"><span id="chapter49_verse4"></span> <strong><sup>4 </sup></strong>Why do you brag about the valleys,<span id="footnotesource426"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote426">*</a></p>
<p class="p1293 sl">About your flowing plain, O unfaithful daughter,</p>
<p class="p1293 sl">Who trusts in her treasures</p>
<p class="p1293 sl">And who says: “Who will come against me?”’”</p>
<p id="p1294" class="p1294 sl"><span id="chapter49_verse5"></span> <strong><sup>5 </sup></strong>“‘Here I am bringing something dreadful on you,’ declares the Sovereign Lord, Jehovah of armies,</p>
<p class="p1294 sl">‘From all those around you.</p>
<p id="p1295" class="p1295 sz">You will be dispersed in every direction,</p>
<p class="p1295 sz">And no one will gather those who flee.’”</p>
<p id="p1296" class="p1296 sl"><span id="chapter49_verse6"></span> <strong><sup>6 </sup></strong>“‘But afterward I will gather the captives of the Am′mon·ites,’ declares Jehovah.”</p>
<p id="p1297" class="p1297 sb"><span id="pos208735"></span><span id="chapter49_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7 </sup></strong>For E′dom, this is what Jehovah of armies says:</p>
<p id="p1298" class="p1298 sz">“Is there no longer any wisdom in Te′man?</p>
<p id="p1299" class="p1299 sz">Has good advice perished from those with understanding?</p>
<p id="p1300" class="p1300 sz">Has their wisdom rotted?</p>
<p id="p1301" class="p1301 sl"><span id="chapter49_verse8"></span> <strong><sup>8 </sup></strong>Flee, turn back!</p>
<p id="p1302" class="p1302 sz">Go and dwell down in the depths, O inhabitants of De′dan!</p>
<p id="p1303" class="p1303 sz">For I will bring disaster on E′sau</p>
<p class="p1303 sz">When the time comes to turn my attention to him.</p>
<p id="p1304" class="p1304 sl"><span id="chapter49_verse9"></span> <strong><sup>9 </sup></strong>If grape gatherers came in to you,</p>
<p class="p1304 sl">Would they not leave some behind for gleaning?</p>
<p id="p1305" class="p1305 sz">If thieves came in by night,</p>
<p class="p1305 sz">They would cause only as much ruin as they wanted.</p>
<p id="p1306" class="p1306 sl"><span id="chapter49_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10 </sup></strong>But I will strip E′sau bare.</p>
<p id="p1307" class="p1307 sz">I will uncover his places of concealment,</p>
<p class="p1307 sz">So that he cannot hide.</p>
<p id="p1308" class="p1308 sz">His children and his brothers and his neighbors will all be destroyed,</p>
<p class="p1308 sz">And he will be no more.</p>
<p id="p1309" class="p1309 sl"><span id="chapter49_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11 </sup></strong>Leave your fatherless children,</p>
<p class="p1309 sl">And I will preserve them alive,</p>
<p class="p1309 sl">And your widows will trust in me.”</p>
<p id="p1310" class="p1310 sb"><span id="chapter49_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12 </sup></strong>For this is what Jehovah says: “Look! If those not <span id="page1109"></span>sentenced to drink the cup must drink it, should you be left completely unpunished? You will not be left unpunished, for you must drink it.”</p>
<p id="p1311" class="p1311 sb"><span id="chapter49_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13 </sup></strong>“For by myself I have sworn,” declares Jehovah, “that Boz′rah will become an object of horror, a reproach, a devastation, and a curse; and all her cities will become perpetual ruins.”</p>
<p id="p1312" class="p1312 sl"><span id="chapter49_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14 </sup></strong>I have heard a report from Jehovah,</p>
<p class="p1312 sl">An envoy has been sent among the nations, saying:</p>
<p id="p1313" class="p1313 sz">“Gather yourselves together and come against her;</p>
<p class="p1313 sz">Prepare for battle.”</p>
<p id="p1314" class="p1314 sl"><span id="chapter49_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15 </sup></strong>“For look! I have made you insignificant among the nations,</p>
<p class="p1314 sl">Despised among men.</p>
<p id="p1315" class="p1315 sl"><span id="chapter49_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16 </sup></strong>The shuddering you caused has deceived you,</p>
<p class="p1315 sl">The presumptuousness of your heart,</p>
<p class="p1315 sl">O you who reside in the retreats of the crag,</p>
<p class="p1315 sl">Occupying the highest hill.</p>
<p id="p1316" class="p1316 sz">Although you build your nest high up like an eagle,</p>
<p class="p1316 sz">I will bring you down from there,” declares Jehovah.</p>
<p id="p1317" class="p1317 sb"><span id="pos210522"></span><span id="chapter49_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17 </sup></strong>“And E′dom must become an object of horror. Everyone passing along by her will stare in horror and whistle on account of all her plagues. <span id="chapter49_verse18"></span><strong><sup>18 </sup></strong>Just as in the overthrow of Sod′om and Go·mor′rah and of their neighboring towns,” Jehovah says, “no one will dwell there, and no man will settle there.</p>
<p id="p1318" class="p1318 sb"><span id="chapter49_verse19"></span><strong><sup>19 </sup></strong>“Look! Someone will come up against the secure pastures like a lion from the dense thickets along the Jordan, but in a moment I will make him run away from her. And I will appoint over her the chosen one. For who is like me, and who will challenge me? What shepherd can stand before me? <span id="chapter49_verse20"></span><strong><sup>20 </sup></strong>Therefore hear, O men, the decision<span id="footnotesource427"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote427">*</a> that Jehovah has made against E′dom and what he has thought out against the inhabitants of Te′man:</p>
<p id="p1319" class="p1319 sz">Surely the little ones of the flock will be dragged away.</p>
<p id="p1320" class="p1320 sz">He will make their dwelling place desolate because of them.</p>
<p id="p1321" class="p1321 sl"><span id="chapter49_verse21"></span><strong><sup>21 </sup></strong>At the sound of their falling, the earth has quaked.</p>
<p id="p1322" class="p1322 sz">There is an outcry!</p>
<p id="p1323" class="p1323 sz">The sound has been heard as far as the Red Sea.</p>
<p id="p1324" class="p1324 sl"><span id="chapter49_verse22"></span><strong><sup>22 </sup></strong>Look! Just like an eagle he will ascend and swoop down,</p>
<p class="p1324 sl">And he will spread out his wings over Boz′rah.</p>
<p id="p1325" class="p1325 sz">In that day the heart of the warriors of E′dom</p>
<p class="p1325 sz">Will become like the heart of a woman in childbirth.”</p>
<p id="p1326" class="p1326 sl"><span id="pos211747"></span><span id="chapter49_verse23"></span><strong><sup>23 </sup></strong>For Damascus:</p>
<p id="p1327" class="p1327 sz">“Ha′math and Ar′pad have been put to shame,</p>
<p class="p1327 sz">For they have heard a bad report.</p>
<p id="p1328" class="p1328 sz">They melt in fear.</p>
<p id="p1329" class="p1329 sz">There is anxiety in the sea that cannot be calmed.</p>
<p id="p1330" class="p1330 sl"><span id="chapter49_verse24"></span><strong><sup>24 </sup></strong>Damascus has lost courage.</p>
<p id="p1331" class="p1331 sz">She has turned to flee, but panic has seized her.</p>
<p id="p1332" class="p1332 sz">Distress and pain have taken hold of her,</p>
<p class="p1332 sz">Like a woman who is giving birth.</p>
<p id="p1333" class="p1333 sl"><span id="chapter49_verse25"></span><strong><sup>25 </sup></strong>How is it that the city of praise has not been abandoned,</p>
<p class="p1333 sl">The town of exultation?</p>
<p id="p1334" class="p1334 sl"><span id="chapter49_verse26"></span><strong><sup>26 </sup></strong>For her young men will fall in her public squares,</p>
<p class="p1334 sl">And all the soldiers will perish in that day,” declares Jehovah of armies.</p>
<p id="p1335" class="p1335 sl"><span id="page1110"></span><span id="chapter49_verse27"></span><strong><sup>27 </sup></strong>“I will set the wall of Damascus on fire,</p>
<p class="p1335 sl">And it will consume the fortified towers of Ben-ha′dad.”</p>
<p id="p1336" class="p1336 sb"><span id="pos212434"></span><span id="chapter49_verse28"></span><strong><sup>28 </sup></strong>For Ke′dar and the kingdoms of Ha′zor, which King Neb·u·chad·nez′zar<span id="footnotesource428"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote428">*</a> of Babylon struck down, this is what Jehovah says:</p>
<p id="p1337" class="p1337 sz">“Rise up, go up to Ke′dar,</p>
<p class="p1337 sz">And destroy the sons of the East.</p>
<p id="p1338" class="p1338 sl"><span id="chapter49_verse29"></span><strong><sup>29 </sup></strong>Their tents and their flocks will be taken,</p>
<p class="p1338 sl">Their tent cloths and all their goods.</p>
<p id="p1339" class="p1339 sz">Their camels will be carried off,</p>
<p class="p1339 sz">And they will cry out to them, ‘Terror is all around!’”</p>
<p id="p1340" class="p1340 sl"><span id="chapter49_verse30"></span><strong><sup>30 </sup></strong>“Flee, go far away!</p>
<p id="p1341" class="p1341 sz">Go and dwell down in the depths, O inhabitants of Ha′zor,” declares Jehovah.</p>
<p id="p1342" class="p1342 sz">“For King Neb·u·chad·nez′zar<span id="footnotesource429"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote429">*</a> of Babylon has devised a strategy against you,</p>
<p class="p1342 sz">And he has thought out a plan against you.”</p>
<p id="p1343" class="p1343 sl"><span id="chapter49_verse31"></span><strong><sup>31 </sup></strong>“Rise up, go up against the nation that is at peace,</p>
<p class="p1343 sl">Dwelling in security!” declares Jehovah.</p>
<p id="p1344" class="p1344 sz">“It has no doors or bars; they live in isolation.</p>
<p id="p1345" class="p1345 sl"><span id="chapter49_verse32"></span><strong><sup>32 </sup></strong>Their camels will become plunder,</p>
<p class="p1345 sl">And their abundant livestock a spoil.</p>
<p id="p1346" class="p1346 sz">I will scatter them to every wind,<span id="footnotesource430"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote430">*</a></p>
<p class="p1346 sz">Those who clip their hair at the temples,</p>
<p class="p1346 sz">And I will bring their disaster from every direction,” declares Jehovah.</p>
<p id="p1347" class="p1347 sl"><span id="chapter49_verse33"></span><strong><sup>33 </sup></strong>“And Ha′zor will become a lair of jackals,</p>
<p class="p1347 sl">A perpetual desolation.</p>
<p id="p1348" class="p1348 sz">No one will dwell there,</p>
<p class="p1348 sz">And no man will settle in her.”</p>
<p id="p1349" class="p1349 sb"><span id="pos213580"></span><span id="chapter49_verse34"></span><strong><sup>34 </sup></strong>This is the word of Jehovah that came to Jeremiah the prophet concerning E′lam in the beginning of the reign of King Zed·e·ki′ah of Judah: <span id="chapter49_verse35"></span><strong><sup>35 </sup></strong>“This is what Jehovah of armies says, ‘Here I am breaking the bow of E′lam, the source<span id="footnotesource431"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote431">*</a> of their mightiness. <span id="chapter49_verse36"></span><strong><sup>36 </sup></strong>I will bring in on E′lam the four winds from the four extremities of the heavens, and I will scatter them to all these winds. There will not be a nation to which the dispersed ones of E′lam will not go.’”</p>
<p id="p1350" class="p1350 sb"><span id="chapter49_verse37"></span><strong><sup>37 </sup></strong>“I will shatter the E′lam·ites before their enemies and before those seeking to take their life;<span id="footnotesource432"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote432">*</a> and I will bring calamity on them, my burning anger,” declares Jehovah. “And I will send the sword after them until I have exterminated them.”</p>
<p id="p1351" class="p1351 sb"><span id="chapter49_verse38"></span><strong><sup>38 </sup></strong>“And I will set my throne in E′lam, and I will destroy from there the king and the princes,” declares Jehovah.</p>
<p id="p1352" class="p1352 sb"><span id="chapter49_verse39"></span><strong><sup>39 </sup></strong>“But in the final part of the days, I will gather the captives of E′lam,” declares Jehovah.</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote423"><p><a href="072_JER-.1-split49.xhtml#footnotesource423">^ <span class="footnoteref">Jer. 49:2</span></a> Or possibly, “the sound of the battle cry.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote424"><p><a href="072_JER-.1-split49.xhtml#footnotesource424">^ <span class="footnoteref">Jer. 49:2</span></a> Or “surrounding.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote425"><p><a href="072_JER-.1-split49.xhtml#footnotesource425">^ <span class="footnoteref">Jer. 49:3</span></a> Or “sheep pens.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote426"><p><a href="072_JER-.1-split49.xhtml#footnotesource426">^ <span class="footnoteref">Jer. 49:4</span></a> Or “low plains.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote427"><p><a href="072_JER-.1-split49.xhtml#footnotesource427">^ <span class="footnoteref">Jer. 49:20</span></a> Or “counsel.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote428"><p><a href="072_JER-.1-split49.xhtml#footnotesource428">^ <span class="footnoteref">Jer. 49:28</span></a> Lit., “Nebuchadrezzar,” a variant spelling.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote429"><p><a href="072_JER-.1-split49.xhtml#footnotesource429">^ <span class="footnoteref">Jer. 49:30</span></a> Lit., “Nebuchadrezzar,” a variant spelling.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote430"><p><a href="072_JER-.1-split49.xhtml#footnotesource430">^ <span class="footnoteref">Jer. 49:32</span></a> Or “in every direction.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote431"><p><a href="072_JER-.1-split49.xhtml#footnotesource431">^ <span class="footnoteref">Jer. 49:35</span></a> Lit., “beginning.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote432"><p><a href="072_JER-.1-split49.xhtml#footnotesource432">^ <span class="footnoteref">Jer. 49:37</span></a> Or “seeking their soul.”</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
