<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>Ezekiel 47</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/docclass1.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
<p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">Ezekiel</a>  <a href="biblechapternav26.xhtml">47</a> : <a href="bibleversenav26_47.xhtml">1 - 23</a></p>
<p id="p557" class="p557 sb"><span id="pos205723"></span><span id="chapter47"></span><span id="chapter47_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>47 </strong></span>Then he brought me back to the entrance of the temple, and there I saw water flowing eastward from under the threshold of the temple, for the front of the temple was facing east. The water was flowing down from under the right side of the temple, south of the altar.</p>
<p id="p558" class="p558 sb"><span id="pos205995"></span><span id="chapter47_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2 </sup></strong>He then led me out by way of the north gate and took me <span id="page1202"></span>outside and around to the outer gate that is facing east, and I saw water trickling from the right side.</p>
<p id="p559" class="p559 sb"><span id="chapter47_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3 </sup></strong>When the man went out toward the east with a measuring line in his hand, he measured off 1,000 cubits<span id="footnotesource368"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote368">*</a> and had me pass through the water; the water was ankle deep.</p>
<p id="p560" class="p560 sb"><span id="chapter47_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4 </sup></strong>Then he measured off another 1,000 and had me pass through the water, and it was up to the knees.</p>
<p id="p561" class="p561 sb">He measured off another 1,000 and had me pass through, and the water was up to the hips.</p>
<p id="p562" class="p562 sb"><span id="chapter47_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5 </sup></strong>When he measured off another 1,000, it was a torrent that I was unable to walk across, for the water was so deep that one had to swim, a torrent of water that could not be crossed on foot.</p>
<p id="p563" class="p563 sb"><span id="chapter47_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6 </sup></strong>He asked me: “Have you seen this, son of man?”</p>
<p id="p564" class="p564 sb">Then he had me walk and return to the bank of the stream. <span id="chapter47_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7 </sup></strong>When I returned, I saw that on the bank of the stream were very many trees on both sides. <span id="pos206920"></span><span id="chapter47_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8 </sup></strong>Then he said to me: “This water flows toward the eastern region and continues down through the Ar′a·bah<span id="footnotesource369"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote369">*</a> and enters the sea. When it enters the sea, the water there will be healed. <span id="chapter47_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9 </sup></strong>Swarms of living creatures<span id="footnotesource370"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote370">*</a> will be able to live wherever the waters<span id="footnotesource371"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote371">*</a> flow. There will be an abundance of fish, because this water will flow there. The seawater will be healed, and everything will live wherever the stream goes.</p>
<p id="p565" class="p565 sb"><span id="chapter47_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10 </sup></strong>“Fishermen will stand beside it from En-ged′i clear to En-eg′la·im, where there will be a drying yard for dragnets. There will be an abundance of many kinds of fish, like the fish of the Great Sea.<span id="footnotesource372"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote372">*</a></p>
<p id="p566" class="p566 sb"><span id="pos207541"></span><span id="chapter47_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11 </sup></strong>“It will have swampy places and marshy places, and these will not be healed. They will be abandoned to salt.</p>
<p id="p567" class="p567 sb"><span id="pos207658"></span><span id="chapter47_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12 </sup></strong>“All sorts of trees for food will grow on both banks of the stream. Their leaves will not wither; nor will their fruitage fail. Each month they will bear new fruit, because the water for them flows from the sanctuary. Their fruitage will serve as food and their leaves for healing.”</p>
<p id="p568" class="p568 sb"><span id="pos207949"></span><span id="chapter47_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13 </sup></strong>This is what the Sovereign Lord Jehovah says: “This is the territory that you will assign as the land inheritance of the 12 tribes of Israel, and Joseph will have two portions. <span id="chapter47_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14 </sup></strong>You will inherit it and receive equal shares.<span id="footnotesource373"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote373">*</a> I swore to give this land to your forefathers, and now it is assigned<span id="footnotesource374"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote374">*</a> to you as an inheritance.</p>
<p id="p569" class="p569 sb"><span id="chapter47_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15 </sup></strong>“This is the boundary of the land on the northern side: It goes from the Great Sea by the way to Heth′lon toward Ze′dad, <span id="chapter47_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16 </sup></strong>Ha′math, Be·ro′thah, and Sib′ra·im, which is between the territory of Damascus and the territory of Ha′math, to Ha′zer-hat′ti·con, which is by the boundary of Ha·u·ran′. <span id="chapter47_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17 </sup></strong>So the boundary will run from the sea to Ha′zar-e′non, along the boundary of Damascus to the north, and the boundary of Ha′math. This is the northern border.</p>
<p id="p570" class="p570 sb"><span id="chapter47_verse18"></span><strong><sup>18 </sup></strong>“The eastern side runs between Ha·u·ran′ and Damascus and along the Jordan between Gil′e·ad and the land of Israel. You should measure from the <span id="page1203"></span>boundary to the eastern sea.<span id="footnotesource375"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote375">*</a> This is the eastern border.</p>
<p id="p571" class="p571 sb"><span id="chapter47_verse19"></span><strong><sup>19 </sup></strong>“The southern border<span id="footnotesource376"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote376">*</a> will be from Ta′mar to the waters of Mer′i·bath-ka′desh, then to the Wadi<span id="footnotesource377"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote377">*</a> and to the Great Sea. This is the southern border.<span id="footnotesource378"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote378">*</a></p>
<p id="p572" class="p572 sb"><span id="chapter47_verse20"></span><strong><sup>20 </sup></strong>“On the western side is the Great Sea, from the boundary up to a point opposite Le′bo-ha′math.<span id="footnotesource379"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote379">*</a> This is the western border.”</p>
<p id="p573" class="p573 sb"><span id="chapter47_verse21"></span><strong><sup>21 </sup></strong>“You are to apportion this land among yourselves, among the 12 tribes of Israel. <span id="chapter47_verse22"></span><strong><sup>22 </sup></strong>You should distribute it for inheritance among yourselves and to the foreigners residing with you who have had children while living among you; and they will be like native-born Israelites to you. They will receive an inheritance among the tribes of Israel along with you. <span id="chapter47_verse23"></span><strong><sup>23 </sup></strong>You should give the foreign resident an inheritance in the territory of the tribe where he has taken up residence,” declares the Sovereign Lord Jehovah.</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote368"><p><a href="076_EZE-.1-split47.xhtml#footnotesource368">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ezek. 47:3</span></a> This refers to long cubits. See <a href="192_APPB.14A.xhtml">App. B14</a>.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote369"><p><a href="076_EZE-.1-split47.xhtml#footnotesource369">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ezek. 47:8</span></a> Or “the desert plain.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote370"><p><a href="076_EZE-.1-split47.xhtml#footnotesource370">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ezek. 47:9</span></a> Or “souls.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote371"><p><a href="076_EZE-.1-split47.xhtml#footnotesource371">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ezek. 47:9</span></a> Lit., “the two streams.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote372"><p><a href="076_EZE-.1-split47.xhtml#footnotesource372">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ezek. 47:10</span></a> That is, the Mediterranean.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote373"><p><a href="076_EZE-.1-split47.xhtml#footnotesource373">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ezek. 47:14</span></a> Lit., “inherit it, each like his brother.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote374"><p><a href="076_EZE-.1-split47.xhtml#footnotesource374">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ezek. 47:14</span></a> Lit., “falls.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote375"><p><a href="076_EZE-.1-split47.xhtml#footnotesource375">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ezek. 47:18</span></a> That is, the Dead Sea.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote376"><p><a href="076_EZE-.1-split47.xhtml#footnotesource376">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ezek. 47:19</span></a> Lit., “the south side southward.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote377"><p><a href="076_EZE-.1-split47.xhtml#footnotesource377">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ezek. 47:19</span></a> That is, the Wadi of Egypt.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote378"><p><a href="076_EZE-.1-split47.xhtml#footnotesource378">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ezek. 47:19</span></a> Lit., “the south side southward.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote379"><p><a href="076_EZE-.1-split47.xhtml#footnotesource379">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ezek. 47:20</span></a> Or “the entrance of Hamath.”</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
