<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>Ezekiel 27</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/docclass1.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
<p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">Ezekiel</a>  <a href="biblechapternav26.xhtml">27</a> : <a href="bibleversenav26_27.xhtml">1 - 36</a></p>
<p id="p257" class="p257 sb"><span id="pos110423"></span><span id="chapter27"></span><span id="chapter27_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>27 </strong></span>The word of Jehovah again came to me, saying: <span id="chapter27_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2 </sup></strong>“As for you, son of man, sing a dirge<span id="footnotesource213"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote213">*</a> over Tyre, <span id="chapter27_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3 </sup></strong>and say to Tyre,</p>
<p class="p257 sb">‘You who dwell at the gateways of the sea,</p>
<p class="p257 sb">The merchant for the peoples of many islands,</p>
<p class="p257 sb">This is what the Sovereign Lord Jehovah says:</p>
<p id="p258" class="p258 sz">“O Tyre, you yourself have said, ‘I am perfect in beauty.’</p>
<p id="p259" class="p259 sl"><span id="chapter27_verse4"></span> <strong><sup>4 </sup></strong>Your territories are in the heart of the sea,</p>
<p class="p259 sl">And your builders have perfected your beauty.</p>
<p id="p260" class="p260 sl"><span id="chapter27_verse5"></span> <strong><sup>5 </sup></strong>They made all your planks from the juniper trees of Se′nir,</p>
<p class="p260 sl"><span id="page1170"></span>And they took a cedar from Leb′a·non to make a mast for you.</p>
<p id="p261" class="p261 sl"><span id="chapter27_verse6"></span> <strong><sup>6 </sup></strong>They made your oars from oaks of Ba′shan,</p>
<p class="p261 sl">And your prow was of cypress inlaid with ivory from the islands of Kit′tim.</p>
<p id="p262" class="p262 sl"><span id="chapter27_verse7"></span> <strong><sup>7 </sup></strong>Colorful linen from Egypt served as cloth for your sail,</p>
<p class="p262 sl">And your deck awnings were of blue thread and purple wool from the islands of E·li′shah.</p>
<p id="p263" class="p263 sl"><span id="chapter27_verse8"></span> <strong><sup>8 </sup></strong>The inhabitants of Si′don and of Ar′vad were your rowers.</p>
<p id="p264" class="p264 sz">Your own skilled men, O Tyre, were your sailors.</p>
<p id="p265" class="p265 sl"><span id="chapter27_verse9"></span> <strong><sup>9 </sup></strong>The experienced<span id="footnotesource214"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote214">*</a> and skilled men of Ge′bal caulked your seams.</p>
<p id="p266" class="p266 sz">All the ships of the sea and their mariners came to you to trade merchandise.</p>
<p id="p267" class="p267 sl"><span id="chapter27_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10 </sup></strong>Men of Persia, Lud, and Put were in your army, your men of war.</p>
<p id="p268" class="p268 sz">They hung their shields and helmets in you, and they brought you splendor.</p>
<p id="p269" class="p269 sl"><span id="chapter27_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11 </sup></strong>The men of Ar′vad in your army were stationed on your walls all around,</p>
<p class="p269 sl">And brave men manned your towers.</p>
<p id="p270" class="p270 sz">They hung circular shields all around your walls</p>
<p class="p270 sz">And perfected your beauty.</p>
<p id="p271" class="p271 sb"><span id="chapter27_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12 </sup></strong>“‘“Tar′shish did business with you because of your abundant wealth. They exchanged silver, iron, tin, and lead for your goods. <span id="chapter27_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13 </sup></strong>Ja′van, Tu′bal, and Me′shech traded with you, exchanging slaves and articles of copper for your merchandise. <span id="chapter27_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14 </sup></strong>The house of To·gar′mah exchanged horses and steeds and mules for your goods. <span id="chapter27_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15 </sup></strong>The people of De′dan traded with you; you employed merchants on many islands; they gave ivory tusks and ebony as your tribute. <span id="chapter27_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16 </sup></strong>E′dom did business with you because of the abundance of your products. They gave turquoise, purple wool, colorful embroidery, fine fabric, corals, and rubies in exchange for your goods.</p>
<p id="p272" class="p272 sb"><span id="chapter27_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17 </sup></strong>“‘“Judah and the land of Israel traded with you, giving the wheat of Min′nith, choice foods, honey, oil, and balsam in exchange for your goods.</p>
<p id="p273" class="p273 sb"><span id="chapter27_verse18"></span><strong><sup>18 </sup></strong>“‘“Damascus did business with you because of the abundance of your products and all your wealth, trading the wine of Hel′bon and wool of Za′har.<span id="footnotesource215"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote215">*</a> <span id="chapter27_verse19"></span><strong><sup>19 </sup></strong>Ve′dan and Ja′van from U′zal gave wrought iron, cassia,<span id="footnotesource216"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote216">*</a> and cane<span id="footnotesource217"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote217">*</a> in exchange for your goods. <span id="chapter27_verse20"></span><strong><sup>20 </sup></strong>De′dan traded with you in saddlecloths<span id="footnotesource218"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote218">*</a> for riding. <span id="chapter27_verse21"></span><strong><sup>21 </sup></strong>You employed the Arabs and all the chieftains of Ke′dar, who were merchants of lambs and rams and goats. <span id="chapter27_verse22"></span><strong><sup>22 </sup></strong>The merchants of She′ba and Ra′a·mah traded with you; they gave all sorts of the finest perfumes, precious stones, and gold in exchange for your goods. <span id="chapter27_verse23"></span><strong><sup>23 </sup></strong>Ha′ran, Can′neh, E′den, the merchants of She′ba, As′shur, and Chil′mad traded with you. <span id="chapter27_verse24"></span><strong><sup>24 </sup></strong>In your marketplace they traded beautiful garments, cloaks made of blue material and colorful embroidery, and multicolored carpets, all bound and secured with ropes.</p>
<p id="p274" class="p274 sl"><span id="chapter27_verse25"></span><strong><sup>25 </sup></strong>The ships of Tar′shish were the caravans for your merchandise,</p>
<p class="p274 sl"><span id="page1171"></span>So that you were filled and loaded down<span id="footnotesource219"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote219">*</a> in the heart of the open sea.</p>
<p id="p275" class="p275 sl"><span id="chapter27_verse26"></span><strong><sup>26 </sup></strong>Your rowers have brought you into heavy seas;</p>
<p class="p275 sl">The east wind has wrecked you in the heart of the open sea.</p>
<p id="p276" class="p276 sl"><span id="chapter27_verse27"></span><strong><sup>27 </sup></strong>Your wealth, your goods, your merchandise, your mariners, and your sailors,</p>
<p class="p276 sl">Those caulking your seams, those trading your merchandise, and all the men of war</p>
<p class="p276 sl">—The entire multitude<span id="footnotesource220"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote220">*</a> within you—</p>
<p class="p276 sl">They will all sink in the heart of the open sea on the day of your downfall.</p>
<p id="p277" class="p277 sl"><span id="chapter27_verse28"></span><strong><sup>28 </sup></strong>When your sailors cry out, the coastlands will shudder.</p>
<p id="p278" class="p278 sl"><span id="chapter27_verse29"></span><strong><sup>29 </sup></strong>All the oarsmen, the mariners, and the seamen</p>
<p class="p278 sl">Will come down from their ships and stand on the land.</p>
<p id="p279" class="p279 sl"><span id="chapter27_verse30"></span><strong><sup>30 </sup></strong>They will raise their voices and cry out bitterly over you</p>
<p class="p279 sl">As they throw dust on their heads and wallow in ashes.</p>
<p id="p280" class="p280 sl"><span id="chapter27_verse31"></span><strong><sup>31 </sup></strong>They will make themselves bald and put on sackcloth;</p>
<p class="p280 sl">They will weep bitterly<span id="footnotesource221"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote221">*</a> over you with intense wailing.</p>
<p id="p281" class="p281 sl"><span id="chapter27_verse32"></span><strong><sup>32 </sup></strong>In their lamentation they will sing a dirge and chant over you:</p>
<p id="p282" class="p282 sz">‘Who is like Tyre, now silent in the midst of the sea?</p>
<p id="p283" class="p283 sl"><span id="chapter27_verse33"></span><strong><sup>33 </sup></strong>When your goods came in from the open sea, you satisfied many peoples.</p>
<p id="p284" class="p284 sz">Your abundant wealth and your merchandise enriched earth’s kings.</p>
<p id="p285" class="p285 sl"><span id="chapter27_verse34"></span><strong><sup>34 </sup></strong>Now you have been wrecked in the open sea, in the deep waters,</p>
<p class="p285 sl">And all your merchandise and your people have sunk with you.</p>
<p id="p286" class="p286 sl"><span id="chapter27_verse35"></span><strong><sup>35 </sup></strong>All the inhabitants of the islands will stare at you in amazement,</p>
<p class="p286 sl">And their kings will shudder with horror—their faces will be troubled.</p>
<p id="p287" class="p287 sl"><span id="chapter27_verse36"></span><strong><sup>36 </sup></strong>The merchants among the nations will whistle over what happened to you.</p>
<p id="p288" class="p288 sz">Your end will be sudden and terrible,</p>
<p class="p288 sz">And you will cease to exist for all time.’”’”</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote213"><p><a href="076_EZE-.1-split27.xhtml#footnotesource213">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ezek. 27:2</span></a> Or “song of mourning.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote214"><p><a href="076_EZE-.1-split27.xhtml#footnotesource214">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ezek. 27:9</span></a> Lit., “The old men.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote215"><p><a href="076_EZE-.1-split27.xhtml#footnotesource215">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ezek. 27:18</span></a> Or “and reddish-gray wool.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote216"><p><a href="076_EZE-.1-split27.xhtml#footnotesource216">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ezek. 27:19</span></a> A tree of the same family as the cinnamon tree.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote217"><p><a href="076_EZE-.1-split27.xhtml#footnotesource217">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ezek. 27:19</span></a> An aromatic reed.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote218"><p><a href="076_EZE-.1-split27.xhtml#footnotesource218">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ezek. 27:20</span></a> Or “garments of woven material.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote219"><p><a href="076_EZE-.1-split27.xhtml#footnotesource219">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ezek. 27:25</span></a> Or possibly, “and glorious.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote220"><p><a href="076_EZE-.1-split27.xhtml#footnotesource220">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ezek. 27:27</span></a> Lit., “congregation.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote221"><p><a href="076_EZE-.1-split27.xhtml#footnotesource221">^ <span class="footnoteref">Ezek. 27:31</span></a> Or “with bitterness of soul.”</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
