<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>Amos 1</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/docclass1.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
<p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">Amos</a>  <a href="biblechapternav30.xhtml">1</a> : <a href="bibleversenav30_1.xhtml">1 - 15</a></p>
<header>
<h1 id="p1"><span id="page1247"></span><strong>AMOS</strong></h1>
</header>
<p id="p2" class="p2 sb"><span id="pos45"></span><span id="chapter1"></span><span id="chapter1_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>1 </strong></span>The words of A′mos,<span id="footnotesource1"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote1">*</a> who was among the sheep raisers from Te·ko′a, which he received in vision concerning Israel in the days of King Uz·zi′ah of Judah and in the days of Jer·o·bo′am son of Jo′ash, the king of Israel, two years before the earthquake. <span id="chapter1_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2 </sup></strong>He said:</p>
<p id="p3" class="p3 sz">“Jehovah will roar out of Zion,</p>
<p class="p3 sz">And he will raise his voice out of Jerusalem.</p>
<p id="p4" class="p4 sz">The pastures of the shepherds will mourn,</p>
<p class="p4 sz">And the summit of Car′mel will dry up.”</p>
<p id="p5" class="p5 sl"><span id="pos486"></span><span id="chapter1_verse3"></span> <strong><sup>3 </sup></strong>“This is what Jehovah says,</p>
<p class="p5 sl">‘“For three revolts<span id="footnotesource2"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote2">*</a> of Damascus, and for four, I will not reverse it,</p>
<p class="p5 sl">Because they threshed Gil′e·ad with iron threshing sledges.</p>
<p id="p6" class="p6 sl"><span id="chapter1_verse4"></span> <strong><sup>4 </sup></strong>So I will send a fire upon the house of Haz′a·el,</p>
<p class="p6 sl">And it will consume the fortified towers of Ben-ha′dad.</p>
<p id="p7" class="p7 sl"><span id="chapter1_verse5"></span> <strong><sup>5 </sup></strong>I will break the bars of Damascus;</p>
<p class="p7 sl">I will destroy the inhabitants from Bik′ath-a′ven</p>
<p class="p7 sl">And the one ruling<span id="footnotesource3"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote3">*</a> from Beth-e′den;</p>
<p class="p7 sl">And the people of Syria will go as exiles to Kir,” says Jehovah.’</p>
<p id="p8" class="p8 sl"><span id="pos972"></span><span id="chapter1_verse6"></span> <strong><sup>6 </sup></strong>This is what Jehovah says,</p>
<p class="p8 sl">‘“For three revolts of Gaz′a, and for four, I will not reverse it,</p>
<p class="p8 sl">Because they took a whole group of exiles to hand them over to E′dom.</p>
<p id="p9" class="p9 sl"><span id="chapter1_verse7"></span> <strong><sup>7 </sup></strong>So I will send a fire onto the wall of Gaz′a,</p>
<p class="p9 sl"><span id="page1248"></span>And it will consume her fortified towers.</p>
<p id="p10" class="p10 sl"><span id="chapter1_verse8"></span> <strong><sup>8 </sup></strong>I will destroy the inhabitants from Ash′dod,</p>
<p class="p10 sl">And the one ruling<span id="footnotesource4"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote4">*</a> from Ash′ke·lon;</p>
<p class="p10 sl">I will turn my hand against Ek′ron,</p>
<p class="p10 sl">And the remaining Phi·lis′tines will perish,” says the Sovereign Lord Jehovah.’</p>
<p id="p11" class="p11 sl"><span id="pos1462"></span><span id="chapter1_verse9"></span> <strong><sup>9 </sup></strong>This is what Jehovah says,</p>
<p class="p11 sl">‘For three revolts of Tyre, and for four, I will not reverse it,</p>
<p class="p11 sl">Because they handed over a whole group of exiles to E′dom,</p>
<p class="p11 sl">And because they did not remember the covenant of brothers.</p>
<p id="p12" class="p12 sl"><span id="chapter1_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10 </sup></strong>So I will send a fire onto the wall of Tyre,</p>
<p class="p12 sl">And it will consume her fortified towers.’</p>
<p id="p13" class="p13 sl"><span id="pos1784"></span><span id="chapter1_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11 </sup></strong>This is what Jehovah says,</p>
<p class="p13 sl">‘For three revolts of E′dom, and for four, I will not reverse it,</p>
<p class="p13 sl">Because he pursued his own brother with the sword,</p>
<p class="p13 sl">And because he refused to show mercy;</p>
<p class="p13 sl">In his anger he keeps tearing them apart relentlessly,</p>
<p class="p13 sl">And he remains furious with them continually.</p>
<p id="p14" class="p14 sl"><span id="chapter1_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12 </sup></strong>So I will send a fire into Te′man,</p>
<p class="p14 sl">And it will consume the fortified towers of Boz′rah.’</p>
<p id="p15" class="p15 sl"><span id="pos2187"></span><span id="chapter1_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13 </sup></strong>This is what Jehovah says,</p>
<p class="p15 sl">‘“For three revolts of the Am′mon·ites, and for four, I will not reverse it,</p>
<p class="p15 sl">Because they ripped open the pregnant women of Gil′e·ad to widen out their own territory.</p>
<p id="p16" class="p16 sl"><span id="chapter1_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14 </sup></strong>So I will set fire to the wall of Rab′bah,</p>
<p class="p16 sl">And it will consume her fortified towers,</p>
<p class="p16 sl">With a war cry in the day of battle,</p>
<p class="p16 sl">With a tempest in the day of storm wind.</p>
<p id="p17" class="p17 sl"><span id="chapter1_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15 </sup></strong>And their king will go into exile together with his princes,” says Jehovah.’</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote1"><p><a href="084_AM-1.xhtml#footnotesource1">^ <span class="footnoteref">Amos 1:1</span></a> Meaning “Being a Load” or “Carrying a Load.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote2"><p><a href="084_AM-1.xhtml#footnotesource2">^ <span class="footnoteref">Amos 1:3</span></a> Or “crimes.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote3"><p><a href="084_AM-1.xhtml#footnotesource3">^ <span class="footnoteref">Amos 1:5</span></a> Lit., “the one holding the scepter.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote4"><p><a href="084_AM-1.xhtml#footnotesource4">^ <span class="footnoteref">Amos 1:8</span></a> Lit., “the one holding the scepter.”</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
