<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>Amos 4</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/docclass1.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
<p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">Amos</a>  <a href="biblechapternav30.xhtml">4</a> : <a href="bibleversenav30_4.xhtml">1 - 13</a></p>
<p id="p58" class="p58 sl"><span id="pos7468"></span><span id="chapter4"></span><span id="chapter4_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>4 </strong></span>“Hear this word, you cows of Ba′shan,</p>
<p class="p58 sl">Who are on the mountain of Sa·mar′i·a,</p>
<p class="p58 sl">You women who are defrauding the lowly and crushing the poor,</p>
<p class="p58 sl">Who say to their husbands,<span id="footnotesource21"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote21">*</a> ‘Bring us something to drink!’</p>
<p id="p59" class="p59 sl"><span id="chapter4_verse2"></span> <strong><sup>2 </sup></strong>The Sovereign Lord Jehovah has sworn by his holiness,</p>
<p class="p59 sl">‘“Look! The days are coming upon you when he will lift you up with butcher hooks</p>
<p class="p59 sl">And the rest of you with fishhooks.</p>
<p id="p60" class="p60 sl"><span id="chapter4_verse3"></span> <strong><sup>3 </sup></strong>You will go out through the breaches in the wall, each one straight ahead;</p>
<p class="p60 sl">And you will be cast out to Har′mon,” declares Jehovah.’</p>
<p id="p61" class="p61 sl"><span id="pos7998"></span><span id="chapter4_verse4"></span> <strong><sup>4 </sup></strong>‘Come to Beth′el and commit transgression,<span id="footnotesource22"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote22">*</a></p>
<p class="p61 sl">To Gil′gal and transgress even more!</p>
<p id="p62" class="p62 sz">Bring your sacrifices in the morning,</p>
<p class="p62 sz">And your tithes<span id="footnotesource23"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote23">*</a> on the third day.</p>
<p id="p63" class="p63 sl"><span id="chapter4_verse5"></span> <strong><sup>5 </sup></strong>Burn a thanksgiving sacrifice of leavened bread;</p>
<p class="p63 sl">Loudly proclaim your voluntary offerings!</p>
<p id="p64" class="p64 sz">For that is what you love to do, O people of Israel,’ declares the Sovereign Lord Jehovah.</p>
<p id="p65" class="p65 sl"><span id="page1251"></span><span id="pos8358"></span><span id="chapter4_verse6"></span> <strong><sup>6 </sup></strong>‘And for my part, I made your teeth clean of food<span id="footnotesource24"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote24">*</a> in all your cities</p>
<p class="p65 sl">And caused a lack of bread in all your houses;</p>
<p class="p65 sl">But you did not come back to me,’ declares Jehovah.</p>
<p id="p66" class="p66 sl"><span id="chapter4_verse7"></span> <strong><sup>7 </sup></strong>‘I also withheld rain from you three months before the harvest;</p>
<p class="p66 sl">I made it rain on one city but not on another city.</p>
<p id="p67" class="p67 sz">One plot of land would have rain,</p>
<p class="p67 sz">But another plot of land where there was no rain would dry up.</p>
<p id="p68" class="p68 sl"><span id="chapter4_verse8"></span> <strong><sup>8 </sup></strong>People of two or three cities staggered to one city to drink water,</p>
<p class="p68 sl">And they would not get satisfied;</p>
<p class="p68 sl">But you did not come back to me,’ declares Jehovah.</p>
<p id="p69" class="p69 sl"><span id="chapter4_verse9"></span> <strong><sup>9 </sup></strong>‘I struck you with scorching heat and mildew.</p>
<p id="p70" class="p70 sz">You multiplied your gardens and vineyards,</p>
<p class="p70 sz">But the locust would devour your fig trees and olive trees;</p>
<p class="p70 sz">And you still did not come back to me,’ declares Jehovah.</p>
<p id="p71" class="p71 sl"><span id="chapter4_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10 </sup></strong>‘I sent among you a pestilence like that of Egypt.</p>
<p id="p72" class="p72 sz">With the sword I killed your young men and captured your horses.</p>
<p id="p73" class="p73 sz">I made the stench of your camps rise up into your nostrils;</p>
<p class="p73 sz">But you did not come back to me,’ declares Jehovah.</p>
<p id="p74" class="p74 sl"><span id="chapter4_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11 </sup></strong>‘I caused an overthrow among you</p>
<p class="p74 sl">Like God’s overthrow of Sod′om and Go·mor′rah.</p>
<p id="p75" class="p75 sz">And you were like a log snatched out of the fire;</p>
<p class="p75 sz">But you did not come back to me,’ declares Jehovah.</p>
<p id="p76" class="p76 sl"><span id="pos9599"></span><span id="chapter4_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12 </sup></strong>So that is what I will do to you, O Israel.</p>
<p id="p77" class="p77 sz">Because this is what I will do to you,</p>
<p class="p77 sz">Get ready to meet your God, O Israel.</p>
<p id="p78" class="p78 sl"><span id="pos9732"></span><span id="chapter4_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13 </sup></strong>For look! he is the One who formed the mountains and created the wind;</p>
<p class="p78 sl">He tells man what His thoughts are,</p>
<p class="p78 sl">He turns the dawn into darkness,</p>
<p class="p78 sl">And he treads on earth’s high places;</p>
<p class="p78 sl">Jehovah the God of armies is his name.”</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote21"><p><a href="084_AM-1-split4.xhtml#footnotesource21">^ <span class="footnoteref">Amos 4:1</span></a> Or “masters.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote22"><p><a href="084_AM-1-split4.xhtml#footnotesource22">^ <span class="footnoteref">Amos 4:4</span></a> Or “rebel.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote23"><p><a href="084_AM-1-split4.xhtml#footnotesource23">^ <span class="footnoteref">Amos 4:4</span></a> Or “tenth parts.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote24"><p><a href="084_AM-1-split4.xhtml#footnotesource24">^ <span class="footnoteref">Amos 4:6</span></a> Or “gave you no food to eat.”</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
