<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>Amos 9</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/docclass1.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
<p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">Amos</a>  <a href="biblechapternav30.xhtml">9</a> : <a href="bibleversenav30_9.xhtml">1 - 15</a></p>
<p id="p152" class="p152 sb"><span id="pos21078"></span><span id="chapter9"></span><span id="chapter9_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>9 </strong></span>I saw Jehovah stationed above the altar, and he said: “Strike the head of the pillar, and the thresholds will shake. Cut them off at the head, and I will kill the last of them with the sword. No one who flees will get away, and no one trying to escape will succeed.</p>
<p id="p153" class="p153 sl"><span id="chapter9_verse2"></span> <strong><sup>2 </sup></strong>If they dig down into the Grave,<span id="footnotesource59"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote59">*</a></p>
<p class="p153 sl">From there my hand will take them;</p>
<p class="p153 sl">And if they go up to the heavens,</p>
<p class="p153 sl">From there I will bring them down.</p>
<p id="p154" class="p154 sl"><span id="chapter9_verse3"></span> <strong><sup>3 </sup></strong>And if they hide themselves on the top of Car′mel,</p>
<p class="p154 sl">From there I will search them out and take them.</p>
<p id="p155" class="p155 sz">If they conceal themselves from my eyes on the bottom of the sea,</p>
<p class="p155 sz">There I will command the serpent to bite them.</p>
<p id="p156" class="p156 sl"><span id="chapter9_verse4"></span> <strong><sup>4 </sup></strong>If they go into captivity before their enemies,</p>
<p class="p156 sl">From there I will command the sword, and it will kill them;</p>
<p class="p156 sl">I will fix my eyes on them for bad, and not for good.</p>
<p id="p157" class="p157 sl"><span id="chapter9_verse5"></span> <strong><sup>5 </sup></strong>For the Sovereign Lord, Jehovah of the armies, is the One who touches the land,<span id="footnotesource60"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote60">*</a></p>
<p class="p157 sl">So that it melts, and all its inhabitants will mourn;</p>
<p class="p157 sl">And all of it will rise like the Nile,</p>
<p class="p157 sl">And sink down like the Nile of Egypt.</p>
<p id="p158" class="p158 sl"><span id="chapter9_verse6"></span> <strong><sup>6 </sup></strong>‘The one who builds his stairs in the heavens</p>
<p class="p158 sl">And establishes his structure<span id="footnotesource61"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote61">*</a> over the earth;</p>
<p class="p158 sl">The one who summons the waters of the sea,</p>
<p class="p158 sl">To pour them out on the surface of the earth</p>
<p class="p158 sl">—Jehovah is his name.’</p>
<p id="p159" class="p159 sl"><span id="chapter9_verse7"></span> <strong><sup>7 </sup></strong>‘Are you not like the sons of the Cush′ites to me, O people of Israel?’ declares Jehovah.</p>
<p id="p160" class="p160 sz">‘Did I not bring Israel up out of the land of Egypt,</p>
<p class="p160 sz">The Phi·lis′tines out of Crete, and Syria out of Kir?’</p>
<p id="p161" class="p161 sl"><span id="chapter9_verse8"></span> <strong><sup>8 </sup></strong>‘Look! The eyes of the Sovereign Lord Jehovah are on the sinful kingdom,</p>
<p class="p161 sl">And he will annihilate it from the surface of the land.</p>
<p id="p162" class="p162 sz">But I will not completely annihilate the house of Jacob,’ declares Jehovah.</p>
<p id="p163" class="p163 sl"><span id="chapter9_verse9"></span> <strong><sup>9 </sup></strong>‘For look! I am giving the command,</p>
<p class="p163 sl">And I will shake the house of Israel among all the nations,</p>
<p class="p163 sl">Just as one shakes a sieve,</p>
<p class="p163 sl">And not a pebble falls to the ground.</p>
<p id="p164" class="p164 sl"><span id="chapter9_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10 </sup></strong>They will die by the sword, all the sinners of my people,</p>
<p class="p164 sl"><span id="page1257"></span>Those who are saying, “The calamity will not come near us or reach us.”’</p>
<p id="p165" class="p165 sl"><span id="pos23093"></span><span id="chapter9_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11 </sup></strong>‘In that day I will raise up the booth<span id="footnotesource62"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote62">*</a> of David that is fallen,</p>
<p class="p165 sl">I will repair the<span id="footnotesource63"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote63">*</a> breaches,</p>
<p class="p165 sl">And I will restore its ruins;</p>
<p class="p165 sl">I will rebuild it as in the days of long ago,</p>
<p class="p165 sl"><span id="chapter9_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12 </sup></strong>So that they may take possession of what is remaining of E′dom,</p>
<p class="p165 sl">And all the nations on whom my name has been called,’ declares Jehovah, who is doing this.</p>
<p id="p166" class="p166 sl"><span id="chapter9_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13 </sup></strong>‘Look! The days are coming,’ declares Jehovah,</p>
<p class="p166 sl">‘When the plowman will overtake the harvester,</p>
<p class="p166 sl">And the treader of grapes, the one carrying seed;</p>
<p class="p166 sl">And the mountains will drip with sweet wine,</p>
<p class="p166 sl">And all the hills will flow with it.<span id="footnotesource64"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote64">*</a></p>
<p id="p167" class="p167 sl"><span id="chapter9_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14 </sup></strong>I will gather back the captives of my people Israel,</p>
<p class="p167 sl">And they will rebuild the desolated cities and inhabit them;</p>
<p class="p167 sl">They will plant vineyards and drink their wine,</p>
<p class="p167 sl">And make gardens and eat their fruit.’</p>
<p id="p168" class="p168 sl"><span id="chapter9_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15 </sup></strong>‘I will plant them on their land,</p>
<p class="p168 sl">And they will never again be uprooted</p>
<p class="p168 sl">From their land that I have given them,’ says Jehovah your God.”</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"></div>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote59"><p><a href="084_AM-1-split9.xhtml#footnotesource59">^ <span class="footnoteref">Amos 9:2</span></a> Or “Sheol,” that is, the common grave of mankind. See Glossary.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote60"><p><a href="084_AM-1-split9.xhtml#footnotesource60">^ <span class="footnoteref">Amos 9:5</span></a> Or “earth.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote61"><p><a href="084_AM-1-split9.xhtml#footnotesource61">^ <span class="footnoteref">Amos 9:6</span></a> Or “dome; vault.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote62"><p><a href="084_AM-1-split9.xhtml#footnotesource62">^ <span class="footnoteref">Amos 9:11</span></a> Or “tent; hut.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote63"><p><a href="084_AM-1-split9.xhtml#footnotesource63">^ <span class="footnoteref">Amos 9:11</span></a> Or “their.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote64"><p><a href="084_AM-1-split9.xhtml#footnotesource64">^ <span class="footnoteref">Amos 9:13</span></a> Lit., “will melt.”</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
