<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>Obadiah</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/docclass1.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
<p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">Obadiah</a> <a href="bibleversenav31_1.xhtml">1 - 21</a></p>
<header>
<h1 id="p1"><span id="page1257"></span><strong>OBADIAH</strong></h1>
</header>
<p id="p2" class="p2 sb"><span id="pos51"></span><span id="chapter1"></span><span id="chapter1_verse1"></span><strong><sup>1 </sup></strong>The vision of O·ba·di′ah:<span id="footnotesource1"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote1">*</a></p>
<p id="p3" class="p3 sz">This is what the Sovereign Lord Jehovah says regarding E′dom:</p>
<p id="p4" class="p4 sz">“We have heard a report from Jehovah,</p>
<p class="p4 sz">An envoy has been sent among the nations:</p>
<p id="p5" class="p5 sz">‘Rise up, let us prepare for battle against her.’”</p>
<p id="p6" class="p6 sl"><span id="chapter1_verse2"></span> <strong><sup>2 </sup></strong>“Look! I have made you insignificant among the nations;</p>
<p class="p6 sl">You are utterly despised.</p>
<p id="p7" class="p7 sl"><span id="chapter1_verse3"></span> <strong><sup>3 </sup></strong>The presumptuousness of your heart has deceived you,</p>
<p class="p7 sl">You who reside in the retreats of the crag,</p>
<p class="p7 sl">Dwelling in the height, saying in your heart,</p>
<p class="p7 sl"><span id="page1258"></span>‘Who will bring me down to the earth?’</p>
<p id="p8" class="p8 sl"><span id="chapter1_verse4"></span> <strong><sup>4 </sup></strong>Even if you make your dwelling high<span id="footnotesource2"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote2">*</a> like the eagle,</p>
<p class="p8 sl">Or if you place your nest among the stars,</p>
<p class="p8 sl">I would bring you down from there,” declares Jehovah.</p>
<p id="p9" class="p9 sl"><span id="chapter1_verse5"></span> <strong><sup>5 </sup></strong>“If thieves would come to you, robbers by night,</p>
<p class="p9 sl">(How utterly you will be destroyed!)<span id="footnotesource3"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote3">*</a></p>
<p id="p10" class="p10 sz">Would they not steal only what they wanted?</p>
<p id="p11" class="p11 sz">Or if it were grape gatherers who would come to you,</p>
<p class="p11 sz">Would they not leave some gleanings behind?</p>
<p id="p12" class="p12 sl"><span id="chapter1_verse6"></span> <strong><sup>6 </sup></strong>O how E′sau has been searched out!</p>
<p id="p13" class="p13 sz">How his hidden treasures have been sought after!</p>
<p id="p14" class="p14 sl"><span id="chapter1_verse7"></span> <strong><sup>7 </sup></strong>They have driven you to the border.</p>
<p id="p15" class="p15 sz">All your allies<span id="footnotesource4"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote4">*</a> have deceived you.</p>
<p id="p16" class="p16 sz">The men at peace with you have prevailed against you.</p>
<p id="p17" class="p17 sz">Those eating bread with you will place a net under you,</p>
<p class="p17 sz">But you will not discern it.</p>
<p id="p18" class="p18 sl"><span id="chapter1_verse8"></span> <strong><sup>8 </sup></strong>In that day,” declares Jehovah,</p>
<p class="p18 sl">“Will I not destroy the wise ones out of E′dom</p>
<p class="p18 sl">And discernment out of the mountainous region of E′sau?</p>
<p id="p19" class="p19 sl"><span id="chapter1_verse9"></span> <strong><sup>9 </sup></strong>And your warriors will become terrified, O Te′man,</p>
<p class="p19 sl">Because each one in the mountainous region of E′sau will be destroyed in the slaughter.</p>
<p id="p20" class="p20 sl"><span id="pos1591"></span><span id="chapter1_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10 </sup></strong>Because of the violence done to your brother Jacob,</p>
<p class="p20 sl">Shame will cover you,</p>
<p class="p20 sl">And you will perish forever.</p>
<p id="p21" class="p21 sl"><span id="chapter1_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11 </sup></strong>On the day when you stood off to the side,</p>
<p class="p21 sl">On the day when strangers took his army into captivity,</p>
<p class="p21 sl">When foreigners entered his gate and cast lots over Jerusalem,</p>
<p class="p21 sl">You acted like one of them.</p>
<p id="p22" class="p22 sl"><span id="chapter1_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12 </sup></strong>You should not gloat over your brother’s day on the day of his misfortune,</p>
<p class="p22 sl">You should not rejoice over the people of Judah on the day of their perishing,</p>
<p class="p22 sl">And you should not speak so arrogantly on the day of their distress.</p>
<p id="p23" class="p23 sl"><span id="chapter1_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13 </sup></strong>You should not come into the gate of my people in the day of their disaster,</p>
<p class="p23 sl">You should not gloat over his calamity in the day of his disaster,</p>
<p class="p23 sl">And you should not lay your hands on his wealth in the day of his disaster.</p>
<p id="p24" class="p24 sl"><span id="chapter1_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14 </sup></strong>You should not stand at the crossroads to slaughter his escapees,</p>
<p class="p24 sl">And you should not hand over his survivors in the day of distress.</p>
<p id="p25" class="p25 sl"><span id="pos2530"></span><span id="chapter1_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15 </sup></strong>For the day of Jehovah against all the nations is near.</p>
<p id="p26" class="p26 sz">As you have done, so it will be done to you.</p>
<p id="p27" class="p27 sz">The way you treated others will come back on your own head.</p>
<p id="p28" class="p28 sl"><span id="chapter1_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16 </sup></strong>For in the way that you have drunk on my holy mountain,</p>
<p class="p28 sl">All the nations will keep drinking constantly.</p>
<p id="p29" class="p29 sz">They will drink and gulp down,</p>
<p class="p29 sz">And they will be as though they had never existed.</p>
<p id="p30" class="p30 sl"><span id="pos2905"></span><span id="chapter1_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17 </sup></strong>But on Mount Zion will be those who escape,</p>
<p class="p30 sl"><span id="page1259"></span>And it will be holy;</p>
<p class="p30 sl">And the house of Jacob will take possession of the things belonging to them.</p>
<p id="p31" class="p31 sl"><span id="pos3067"></span><span id="chapter1_verse18"></span><strong><sup>18 </sup></strong>The house of Jacob will become a fire,</p>
<p class="p31 sl">The house of Joseph a flame,</p>
<p class="p31 sl">And the house of E′sau like stubble;</p>
<p class="p31 sl">They will set them ablaze and consume them,</p>
<p class="p31 sl">And there will be no survivor of the house of E′sau,</p>
<p class="p31 sl">For Jehovah himself has spoken.</p>
<p id="p32" class="p32 sl"><span id="chapter1_verse19"></span><strong><sup>19 </sup></strong>They will take possession of the Neg′eb and the mountainous region of E′sau,</p>
<p class="p32 sl">Of the She·phe′lah and the land of the Phi·lis′tines.</p>
<p id="p33" class="p33 sz">They will take possession of the field of E′phra·im and the field of Sa·mar′i·a,</p>
<p class="p33 sz">And Benjamin will take possession of Gil′e·ad.</p>
<p id="p34" class="p34 sl"><span id="chapter1_verse20"></span><strong><sup>20 </sup></strong>To the exiles of this rampart,<span id="footnotesource5"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote5">*</a></p>
<p class="p34 sl">To the people of Israel will belong the land of the Ca′naan·ites as far as Zar′e·phath.</p>
<p id="p35" class="p35 sz">And the exiles of Jerusalem, who were in Se·phar′ad, will possess the cities of the Neg′eb.</p>
<p id="p36" class="p36 sl"><span id="pos3819"></span><span id="chapter1_verse21"></span><strong><sup>21 </sup></strong>And saviors will go up on Mount Zion</p>
<p class="p36 sl">To judge the mountainous region of E′sau,</p>
<p class="p36 sl">And the kingship will become Jehovah’s.”</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"></div>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote1"><p><a href="086_OB-1.xhtml#footnotesource1">^ <span class="footnoteref">Obad. 1</span></a> Meaning “Servant of Jehovah.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote2"><p><a href="086_OB-1.xhtml#footnotesource2">^ <span class="footnoteref">Obad. 4</span></a> Or possibly, “you fly high.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote3"><p><a href="086_OB-1.xhtml#footnotesource3">^ <span class="footnoteref">Obad. 5</span></a> Or possibly, “How much would they destroy?”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote4"><p><a href="086_OB-1.xhtml#footnotesource4">^ <span class="footnoteref">Obad. 7</span></a> Or “those in covenant with you.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote5"><p><a href="086_OB-1.xhtml#footnotesource5">^ <span class="footnoteref">Obad. 20</span></a> Or “fortification.”</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
