<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>Jonah 3</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/docclass1.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
<p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">Jonah</a>  <a href="biblechapternav32.xhtml">3</a> : <a href="bibleversenav32_3.xhtml">1 - 10</a></p>
<p id="p30" class="p30 sb"><span id="pos3939"></span><span id="chapter3"></span><span id="chapter3_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>3 </strong></span>Then the word of Jehovah came to Jo′nah a second time, saying: <span id="chapter3_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2 </sup></strong>“Get up, go to Nin′e·veh the great city, and proclaim to her the message that I tell you.”</p>
<p id="p31" class="p31 sb"><span id="chapter3_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3 </sup></strong>So Jo′nah got up and went to Nin′e·veh in obedience to the word of Jehovah. Now Nin′e·veh was a very large city<span id="footnotesource11"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote11">*</a>—a walking distance of three days. <span id="chapter3_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4 </sup></strong>Then Jo′nah entered the city, and walking a day’s journey, he was proclaiming: “In just 40 days more, Nin′e·veh will be overthrown.”</p>
<p id="p32" class="p32 sb"><span id="pos4392"></span><span id="chapter3_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5 </sup></strong>And the men of Nin′e·veh put faith in God, and they proclaimed a fast and put on sackcloth, from the greatest to the least of them. <span id="chapter3_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6 </sup></strong>When the message reached the king of Nin′e·veh, he rose up from his throne and took off his royal garment and covered himself with sackcloth and sat down in the ashes. <span id="chapter3_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7 </sup></strong>Furthermore, he issued a proclamation throughout Nin′e·veh,</p>
<p class="p32 sb">“By the decree of the king and his nobles: No man or beast, herd or flock, should eat anything at all. They should not take food, nor should they drink any water. <span id="chapter3_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8 </sup></strong>Let them be covered with sackcloth, both man and beast; and let them call out earnestly to God and turn from their evil ways and from the violence they practice. <span id="chapter3_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9 </sup></strong>Who knows whether the true God may reconsider<span id="footnotesource12"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote12">*</a> what he intends to do and turn from his burning anger, so that we may not perish?”</p>
<p id="p33" class="p33 sb"><span id="pos5226"></span><span id="chapter3_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10 </sup></strong>When the true God saw what they did, how they had turned back from their evil ways, he reconsidered<span id="footnotesource13"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote13">*</a> the calamity that he said he would bring on them, and he did not bring it.</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote11"><p><a href="088_JON-.1-split3.xhtml#footnotesource11">^ <span class="footnoteref">Jonah 3:3</span></a> Lit., “a city great to God.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote12"><p><a href="088_JON-.1-split3.xhtml#footnotesource12">^ <span class="footnoteref">Jonah 3:9</span></a> Or “feel regret over.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote13"><p><a href="088_JON-.1-split3.xhtml#footnotesource13">^ <span class="footnoteref">Jonah 3:10</span></a> Or “felt regret over.”</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
