<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>Nahum 3</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/docclass1.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
<p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">Nahum</a>  <a href="biblechapternav34.xhtml">3</a> : <a href="bibleversenav34_3.xhtml">1 - 19</a></p>
<p id="p60" class="p60 sl"><span id="pos4475"></span><span id="chapter3"></span><span id="chapter3_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>3 </strong></span>Woe to the city of bloodshed!</p>
<p id="p61" class="p61 sz">She is completely full of deception and robbery.</p>
<p id="p62" class="p62 sz">She is never without prey!</p>
<p id="p63" class="p63 sl"><span id="chapter3_verse2"></span> <strong><sup>2 </sup></strong>There is the crack of the whip and the rattle of wheels,</p>
<p class="p63 sl">The dashing horse and the bounding chariot.</p>
<p id="p64" class="p64 sl"><span id="chapter3_verse3"></span> <strong><sup>3 </sup></strong>The mounted horseman, the flashing sword, and the glittering spear,</p>
<p class="p64 sl">The multitude of the slain and the heaps of carcasses</p>
<p class="p64 sl">—There is no end to the dead bodies.</p>
<p id="p65" class="p65 sz">They keep stumbling over the dead bodies.</p>
<p id="p66" class="p66 sl"><span id="chapter3_verse4"></span> <strong><sup>4 </sup></strong>This is because of the many acts of prostitution of the prostitute,</p>
<p class="p66 sl">She who is attractive and charming, a mistress of sorceries,</p>
<p class="p66 sl">Who ensnares nations by her prostitution and families by her sorceries.</p>
<p id="p67" class="p67 sl"><span id="chapter3_verse5"></span> <strong><sup>5 </sup></strong>“Look! I am against you,”<span id="footnotesource17"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote17">*</a> declares Jehovah of armies,</p>
<p class="p67 sl">“I will lift your skirts up over your face;</p>
<p class="p67 sl">I will cause nations to see your nakedness,</p>
<p class="p67 sl">And kingdoms your disgrace.</p>
<p id="p68" class="p68 sl"><span id="chapter3_verse6"></span> <strong><sup>6 </sup></strong>And I will throw filth on you</p>
<p class="p68 sl">And make you despicable;</p>
<p class="p68 sl">I will make a spectacle of you.</p>
<p id="p69" class="p69 sl"><span id="chapter3_verse7"></span> <strong><sup>7 </sup></strong>Everyone who sees you will flee from you and say,</p>
<p class="p69 sl">‘Nin′e·veh has been devastated!</p>
<p id="p70" class="p70 sz">Who will sympathize with her?’</p>
<p id="p71" class="p71 sz">Where will I find comforters for you?</p>
<p id="p72" class="p72 sl"><span id="pos5564"></span><span id="chapter3_verse8"></span> <strong><sup>8 </sup></strong>Are you better than No-a′mon,<span id="footnotesource18"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote18">*</a> which sat by the Nile canals?</p>
<p id="p73" class="p73 sz">Waters surrounded her;</p>
<p class="p73 sz">Her wealth was the sea and her wall was the sea.</p>
<p id="p74" class="p74 sl"><span id="chapter3_verse9"></span> <strong><sup>9 </sup></strong>E·thi·o′pi·a was her source of boundless strength, also Egypt.</p>
<p id="p75" class="p75 sz">Put and the Lib′y·ans were your helpers.</p>
<p id="p76" class="p76 sl"><span id="chapter3_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10 </sup></strong>But even she became an exile;</p>
<p class="p76 sl">She went into captivity.</p>
<p id="p77" class="p77 sz">Her children also were dashed to pieces on every street corner.<span id="footnotesource19"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote19">*</a></p>
<p id="p78" class="p78 sz">They cast lots over her honored men,</p>
<p class="p78 sz">And all her great men have been bound with fetters.</p>
<p id="p79" class="p79 sl"><span id="chapter3_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11 </sup></strong>You will also become drunk;</p>
<p class="p79 sl">You will go into hiding.</p>
<p id="p80" class="p80 sz">You will seek refuge from the enemy.</p>
<p id="p81" class="p81 sl"><span id="page1274"></span><span id="chapter3_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12 </sup></strong>All your fortifications are like fig trees with the first ripe fruits;</p>
<p class="p81 sl">If they are shaken, they will fall into the mouth of devourers.</p>
<p id="p82" class="p82 sl"><span id="pos6299"></span><span id="chapter3_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13 </sup></strong>Look! Your troops are like women in your midst.</p>
<p id="p83" class="p83 sz">The gates of your land will be wide open for your enemies.</p>
<p id="p84" class="p84 sz">Fire will consume the bars of your gates.</p>
<p id="p85" class="p85 sl"><span id="chapter3_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14 </sup></strong>Draw water for the siege!</p>
<p id="p86" class="p86 sz">Strengthen your fortifications.</p>
<p id="p87" class="p87 sz">Go down into the mire and tread the clay;</p>
<p class="p87 sz">Grab hold of the brick mold.</p>
<p id="p88" class="p88 sl"><span id="chapter3_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15 </sup></strong>Even there fire will consume you.</p>
<p id="p89" class="p89 sz">A sword will cut you down.</p>
<p id="p90" class="p90 sz">It will devour you as the young locusts do.</p>
<p id="p91" class="p91 sz">Make yourself as numerous as the young locusts!</p>
<p id="p92" class="p92 sz">Yes, make yourself as numerous as the locusts!</p>
<p id="p93" class="p93 sl"><span id="chapter3_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16 </sup></strong>You have multiplied your merchants more than the stars of the heavens.</p>
<p id="p94" class="p94 sz">The young locust strips off its skin and flies away.</p>
<p id="p95" class="p95 sl"><span id="chapter3_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17 </sup></strong>Your guards are like the locust,</p>
<p class="p95 sl">And your officers like a locust swarm.</p>
<p id="p96" class="p96 sz">They camp in the stone pens on a cold day,</p>
<p class="p96 sz">But when the sun shines, they fly away;</p>
<p class="p96 sz">And no one knows where they are.</p>
<p id="p97" class="p97 sl"><span id="chapter3_verse18"></span><strong><sup>18 </sup></strong>Your shepherds are drowsy, O king of As·syr′i·a;</p>
<p class="p97 sl">Your nobles stay in their residences.</p>
<p id="p98" class="p98 sz">Your people are scattered on the mountains,</p>
<p class="p98 sz">And no one is gathering them together.</p>
<p id="p99" class="p99 sl"><span id="chapter3_verse19"></span><strong><sup>19 </sup></strong>There is no relief for your catastrophe.</p>
<p id="p100" class="p100 sz">Your wound is beyond healing.</p>
<p id="p101" class="p101 sz">All those hearing the report about you will clap their hands;</p>
<p class="p101 sz">For who has not suffered from your relentless cruelty?”</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"></div>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote17"><p><a href="092_NAH-.1-split3.xhtml#footnotesource17">^ <span class="footnoteref">Nah. 3:5</span></a> That is, Nineveh.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote18"><p><a href="092_NAH-.1-split3.xhtml#footnotesource18">^ <span class="footnoteref">Nah. 3:8</span></a> That is, Thebes.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote19"><p><a href="092_NAH-.1-split3.xhtml#footnotesource19">^ <span class="footnoteref">Nah. 3:10</span></a> Lit., “at the head of all streets.”</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
