<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>Zechariah 5</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/docclass1.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
<p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">Zechariah</a>  <a href="biblechapternav38.xhtml">5</a> : <a href="bibleversenav38_5.xhtml">1 - 11</a></p>
<p id="p40" class="p40 sb"><span id="pos8640"></span><span id="chapter5"></span><span id="chapter5_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>5 </strong></span>Again I looked up, and I saw a flying scroll. <span id="chapter5_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2 </sup></strong>He asked me: “What do you see?”</p>
<p id="p41" class="p41 sb">I replied: “I see a flying scroll, which is 20 cubits<span id="footnotesource16"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote16">*</a> long and 10 cubits wide.”</p>
<p id="p42" class="p42 sb"><span id="chapter5_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3 </sup></strong>Then he said to me: “This is the curse that is going out over the face of all the earth, because everyone who steals, as written on its one side, has gone unpunished; and everyone who makes a sworn oath, as written on its other side, has gone unpunished. <span id="chapter5_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4 </sup></strong>‘I have sent it out,’ declares Jehovah of armies, ‘and it will enter into the house of the thief and into the house of the one who makes a false oath in <span id="page1290"></span>my name; and it will remain inside that house and consume it and its timbers and its stones.’”</p>
<p id="p43" class="p43 sb"><span id="pos9324"></span><span id="chapter5_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5 </sup></strong>Then the angel who was speaking with me came forward and said to me: “Look up, please, and see what is going out.”</p>
<p id="p44" class="p44 sb"><span id="chapter5_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6 </sup></strong>So I asked: “What is it?”</p>
<p id="p45" class="p45 sb">He replied: “This is the e′phah container<span id="footnotesource17"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote17">*</a> that is going out.” He continued: “This is their appearance in all the earth.” <span id="chapter5_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7 </sup></strong>And I saw that the round lid of lead was lifted up, and there was a woman sitting inside the container. <span id="pos9703"></span><span id="chapter5_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8 </sup></strong>So he said: “This is Wickedness.” Then he threw her back into the e′phah container, after which he thrust the lead weight over its mouth.</p>
<p id="p46" class="p46 sb"><span id="pos9845"></span><span id="chapter5_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9 </sup></strong>Then I looked up and saw two women coming forward, and they were soaring in the wind. They had wings like the wings of a stork. And they lifted up the container between the earth and heaven. <span id="chapter5_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10 </sup></strong>So I asked the angel who was speaking with me: “Where are they taking the e′phah container?”</p>
<p id="p47" class="p47 sb"><span id="chapter5_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11 </sup></strong>He replied: “To the land of Shi′nar<span id="footnotesource18"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote18">*</a> to build her a house; and when it is prepared, she will be deposited there in her proper place.”</p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote16"><p><a href="100_ZEC-.1-split5.xhtml#footnotesource16">^ <span class="footnoteref">Zech. 5:2</span></a> A cubit equaled 44.5 cm (17.5 in.). See <a href="192_APPB.14A.xhtml">App. B14</a>.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote17"><p><a href="100_ZEC-.1-split5.xhtml#footnotesource17">^ <span class="footnoteref">Zech. 5:6</span></a> Lit., “the ephah,” here referring to a container or basket used to measure an ephah. An ephah equaled 22 L (20 dry qt). See <a href="192_APPB.14A.xhtml">App. B14</a>.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote18"><p><a href="100_ZEC-.1-split5.xhtml#footnotesource18">^ <span class="footnoteref">Zech. 5:11</span></a> That is, Babylonia.</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
