<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>Zechariah 11</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/docclass1.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
<p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">Zechariah</a>  <a href="biblechapternav38.xhtml">11</a> : <a href="bibleversenav38_11.xhtml">1 - 17</a></p>
<p id="p118" class="p118 sl"><span id="pos23695"></span><span id="chapter11"></span><span id="chapter11_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>11 </strong></span>“Open your doors, O Leb′a·non,</p>
<p class="p118 sl">So that a fire may consume your cedars.</p>
<p id="p119" class="p119 sl"><span id="chapter11_verse2"></span> <strong><sup>2 </sup></strong>Wail, you juniper, for the cedar has fallen;</p>
<p class="p119 sl">The majestic trees have been destroyed!</p>
<p id="p120" class="p120 sz">Wail, you oaks of Ba′shan,</p>
<p class="p120 sz">For the dense forest has come down!</p>
<p id="p121" class="p121 sl"><span id="chapter11_verse3"></span> <strong><sup>3 </sup></strong>Listen! The wailing of shepherds,</p>
<p class="p121 sl">For their majesty has been devastated.</p>
<p id="p122" class="p122 sz">Listen! The roaring of young lions,<span id="footnotesource60"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote60">*</a></p>
<p class="p122 sz">For the dense thickets along the Jordan have been destroyed.</p>
<p id="p123" class="p123 sb"><span id="pos24116"></span><span id="chapter11_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4 </sup></strong>“This is what Jehovah my God says, ‘Shepherd the flock meant for the slaughter, <span id="chapter11_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5 </sup></strong>whose buyers slaughtered them and are not held guilty. And those who sell them say, “May Jehovah be praised, for I will become rich.” And their shepherds have no compassion for them.’</p>
<p id="p124" class="p124 sb"><span id="chapter11_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6 </sup></strong>“‘For I will no longer show compassion on the inhabitants of the land,’ declares Jehovah. ‘So I will cause each man to fall into the hand of his neighbor and his king; and they will crush the land, and I will not rescue them out of their hand.’”</p>
<p id="p125" class="p125 sb"><span id="pos24642"></span><span id="chapter11_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7 </sup></strong>And I began to shepherd the flock meant for slaughter, in your behalf, O afflicted ones of the flock. So I took two staffs, and I called one Pleasantness, and the other Union, and I began to shepherd the flock. <span id="chapter11_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8 </sup></strong>And I dismissed three shepherds in one month, for I<span id="footnotesource61"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote61">*</a> became impatient with them, and they<span id="footnotesource62"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote62">*</a> detested me as well. <span id="chapter11_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9 </sup></strong>And I said: “I will not keep shepherding you. Let the one who is dying die, and let the one perishing perish. As for those <span id="page1296"></span>who are left, let them devour one another’s flesh.” <span id="chapter11_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10 </sup></strong>So I took my staff Pleasantness and cut it up, breaking my covenant that I had made with all the peoples. <span id="chapter11_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11 </sup></strong>So it was broken in that day, and the afflicted ones of the flock who were watching me knew that it was the word of Jehovah.</p>
<p id="p126" class="p126 sb"><span id="pos25394"></span><span id="chapter11_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12 </sup></strong>Then I said to them: “If it seems good to you, give me my wages; but if not, withhold them.” And they paid<span id="footnotesource63"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote63">*</a> my wages, 30 pieces of silver.</p>
<p id="p127" class="p127 sb"><span id="pos25541"></span><span id="chapter11_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13 </sup></strong>Then Jehovah said to me: “Throw it into the treasury—the magnificent value with which they valued me.” So I took the 30 pieces of silver and threw it into the treasury at the house of Jehovah.</p>
<p id="p128" class="p128 sb"><span id="chapter11_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14 </sup></strong>Then I cut up my second staff, the Union, breaking the brotherhood between Judah and Israel.</p>
<p id="p129" class="p129 sb"><span id="chapter11_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15 </sup></strong>And Jehovah said to me: “Now take the equipment of a useless shepherd. <span id="chapter11_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16 </sup></strong>For I am letting a shepherd rise up in the land. He will not take care of the sheep that are perishing; he will not seek out the young or heal the injured or feed those able to stand. Instead, he devours the flesh of the fat one and tears off the hooves of the sheep.</p>
<p id="p130" class="p130 sl"><span id="chapter11_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17 </sup></strong>Woe to my worthless shepherd, who is abandoning the flock!</p>
<p id="p131" class="p131 sz">A sword will strike his arm and his right eye.</p>
<p id="p132" class="p132 sz">His arm will wither completely,</p>
<p class="p132 sz">And his right eye will go completely blind.”<span id="footnotesource64"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote64">*</a></p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote60"><p><a href="100_ZEC-.1-split11.xhtml#footnotesource60">^ <span class="footnoteref">Zech. 11:3</span></a> Or “maned young lions.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote61"><p><a href="100_ZEC-.1-split11.xhtml#footnotesource61">^ <span class="footnoteref">Zech. 11:8</span></a> Or “my soul.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote62"><p><a href="100_ZEC-.1-split11.xhtml#footnotesource62">^ <span class="footnoteref">Zech. 11:8</span></a> Or “their soul.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote63"><p><a href="100_ZEC-.1-split11.xhtml#footnotesource63">^ <span class="footnoteref">Zech. 11:12</span></a> Lit., “weighed out.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote64"><p><a href="100_ZEC-.1-split11.xhtml#footnotesource64">^ <span class="footnoteref">Zech. 11:17</span></a> Lit., “dim.”</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
