<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>1 Corinthians 1</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/docclass1.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
<p class="w_navigation w_biblebookname"><a href="biblebooknav.xhtml">1 Corinthians</a>  <a href="biblechapternav46.xhtml">1</a> : <a href="bibleversenav46_1.xhtml">1 - 31</a></p>
<header>
<h1 id="p1"><span id="page1526"></span><strong>THE FIRST TO THE CORINTHIANS</strong></h1>
</header>
<p id="p2" class="p2 sb"><span id="pos89"></span><span id="chapter1"></span><span id="chapter1_verse1"></span><span class="w_ch"><strong>1 </strong></span>Paul, called to be an apostle of Christ Jesus by God’s will, and Sos′the·nes our brother, <span id="chapter1_verse2"></span><strong><sup>2 </sup></strong>to the congregation of God that is in Corinth, to you who have been sanctified in union with Christ Jesus, called to be holy ones, together with all those everywhere who are calling on the name of our Lord Jesus Christ, their Lord and ours:</p>
<p id="p3" class="p3 sb"><span id="chapter1_verse3"></span><strong><sup>3 </sup></strong>May you have undeserved kindness and peace from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ.</p>
<p id="p4" class="p4 sb"><span id="pos525"></span><span id="chapter1_verse4"></span><strong><sup>4 </sup></strong>I always thank my God for you in view of the undeserved kindness of God given to you in Christ Jesus; <span id="chapter1_verse5"></span><strong><sup>5 </sup></strong>because in everything you have been enriched in him, in full ability to speak and in full knowledge, <span id="chapter1_verse6"></span><strong><sup>6 </sup></strong>just as the witness about the Christ has been made firm among you, <span id="chapter1_verse7"></span><strong><sup>7 </sup></strong>so that you do not lack in any gift at all, while you are eagerly waiting for the revelation of our Lord Jesus Christ. <span id="chapter1_verse8"></span><strong><sup>8 </sup></strong>He will also make you firm to the end so that you may be open to no accusation in the day of our Lord Jesus Christ. <span id="chapter1_verse9"></span><strong><sup>9 </sup></strong>God is faithful, by whom you were called into fellowship<span id="footnotesource1"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote1">*</a> with his Son, Jesus Christ our Lord.</p>
<p id="p5" class="p5 sb"><span id="pos1152"></span><span id="chapter1_verse10"></span><strong><sup>10 </sup></strong>Now I urge you, brothers, through the name of our Lord Jesus Christ, that you should all speak in agreement and that there should be no divisions among you, but that you may be completely united in the same mind and in the same line of thought. <span id="chapter1_verse11"></span><strong><sup>11 </sup></strong>For some from the house of Chlo′e have informed me regarding you, my brothers, that there are dissensions among you. <span id="chapter1_verse12"></span><strong><sup>12 </sup></strong>What I mean is this, that each one of you says: “I belong to Paul,” “But I to A·pol′los,” “But I to Ce′phas,”<span id="footnotesource2"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote2">*</a> “But I to Christ.” <span id="chapter1_verse13"></span><strong><sup>13 </sup></strong>Is the Christ divided? Paul was not executed on the stake for you, was he? Or were you baptized in the name of Paul? <span id="chapter1_verse14"></span><strong><sup>14 </sup></strong>I thank God that I baptized none of you except Cris′pus and Ga′ius, <span id="chapter1_verse15"></span><strong><sup>15 </sup></strong>so that no one may say that you were baptized in my name. <span id="chapter1_verse16"></span><strong><sup>16 </sup></strong>Yes, I also baptized the household of Steph′a·nas. As for the rest, I do not know whether I baptized anyone <span id="page1527"></span>else. <span id="chapter1_verse17"></span><strong><sup>17 </sup></strong>For Christ sent me, not to baptize, but to declare the good news; and not with wisdom of speech,<span id="footnotesource3"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote3">*</a> so that the torture stake<span id="footnotesource4"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote4">*</a> of the Christ should not be made useless.</p>
<p id="p6" class="p6 sb"><span id="pos2236"></span><span id="chapter1_verse18"></span><strong><sup>18 </sup></strong>For the speech about the torture stake<span id="footnotesource5"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote5">*</a> is foolishness to those who are perishing, but to us who are being saved, it is God’s power. <span id="chapter1_verse19"></span><strong><sup>19 </sup></strong>For it is written: “I will make the wisdom of the wise men perish, and the intelligence of the intellectuals I will reject.”<span id="footnotesource6"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote6">*</a> <span id="chapter1_verse20"></span><strong><sup>20 </sup></strong>Where is the wise man? Where is the scribe?<span id="footnotesource7"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote7">*</a> Where is the debater of this system of things?<span id="footnotesource8"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote8">*</a> Has not God made the wisdom of the world foolish? <span id="chapter1_verse21"></span><strong><sup>21 </sup></strong>For since, in the wisdom of God, the world did not get to know God through its wisdom, God was pleased through the foolishness of what is preached to save those believing.</p>
<p id="p7" class="p7 sb"><span id="chapter1_verse22"></span><strong><sup>22 </sup></strong>For the Jews ask for signs and the Greeks look for wisdom; <span id="chapter1_verse23"></span><strong><sup>23 </sup></strong>but we preach Christ executed on the stake, to the Jews a cause for stumbling but to the nations foolishness. <span id="chapter1_verse24"></span><strong><sup>24 </sup></strong>However, to those who are called, both Jews and Greeks, Christ is the power of God and the wisdom of God. <span id="chapter1_verse25"></span><strong><sup>25 </sup></strong>Because a foolish thing of God is wiser than men, and a weak thing of God is stronger than men.</p>
<p id="p8" class="p8 sb"><span id="pos3247"></span><span id="chapter1_verse26"></span><strong><sup>26 </sup></strong>For you see his calling of you, brothers, that there are not many wise in a fleshly way,<span id="footnotesource9"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote9">*</a> not many powerful, not many of noble birth,<span id="footnotesource10"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote10">*</a> <span id="chapter1_verse27"></span><strong><sup>27 </sup></strong>but God chose the foolish things of the world to put the wise men to shame; and God chose the weak things of the world to put the strong things to shame; <span id="chapter1_verse28"></span><strong><sup>28 </sup></strong>and God chose the insignificant things of the world and the things looked down on, the things that are not, to bring to nothing the things that are, <span id="chapter1_verse29"></span><strong><sup>29 </sup></strong>so that no one<span id="footnotesource11"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote11">*</a> might boast in the sight of God. <span id="chapter1_verse30"></span><strong><sup>30 </sup></strong>But it is due to him that you are in union with Christ Jesus, who has become to us wisdom from God, also righteousness and sanctification and release by ransom, <span id="chapter1_verse31"></span><strong><sup>31 </sup></strong>so that it may be just as it is written: “The one who boasts, let him boast in Jehovah.”<span id="footnotesource12"></span><a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote12">*</a></p>
<div class="groupFootnote"><aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote1"><p><a href="116_1CO-.1.xhtml#footnotesource1">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Cor. 1:9</span></a> Or “a sharing.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote2"><p><a href="116_1CO-.1.xhtml#footnotesource2">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Cor. 1:12</span></a> Also called Peter.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote3"><p><a href="116_1CO-.1.xhtml#footnotesource3">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Cor. 1:17</span></a> Or “clever speech.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote4"><p><a href="116_1CO-.1.xhtml#footnotesource4">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Cor. 1:17</span></a> See Glossary.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote5"><p><a href="116_1CO-.1.xhtml#footnotesource5">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Cor. 1:18</span></a> See Glossary.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote6"><p><a href="116_1CO-.1.xhtml#footnotesource6">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Cor. 1:19</span></a> Or “shove aside.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote7"><p><a href="116_1CO-.1.xhtml#footnotesource7">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Cor. 1:20</span></a> That is, an expert in the Law.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote8"><p><a href="116_1CO-.1.xhtml#footnotesource8">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Cor. 1:20</span></a> Or “this age.” See Glossary.</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote9"><p><a href="116_1CO-.1.xhtml#footnotesource9">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Cor. 1:26</span></a> Or “by human standards.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote10"><p><a href="116_1CO-.1.xhtml#footnotesource10">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Cor. 1:26</span></a> Or “from important families.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote11"><p><a href="116_1CO-.1.xhtml#footnotesource11">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Cor. 1:29</span></a> Lit., “flesh.”</p></div></aside>
<aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote12"><p><a href="116_1CO-.1.xhtml#footnotesource12">^ <span class="footnoteref">1 Cor. 1:31</span></a> See <a href="166_APP-.A5.xhtml">App. A5</a>.</p></div></aside>
</div>
</body>
</html>
